My name is Marco.
I'm Amira.
And Amira and I are here today with a great, great lesson for you.
Yes, we are.
Today we're going to be talking about a restaurant.
Amira, why don't you give us a little bit more details?
Well, we're talking about a situation in a restaurant and two people are involved, the
waiter and the customer.
And I don't want to say any more.
Okay, don't say any more.
Let's just listen to this dialogue and we'll be back later to explain it.
Good evening.
My name is Fabio.
I'll be your waiter for tonight.
May I take your order?
No, I'm still working on it.
This menu is not even in English.
What's good here?
For you, sir, I would recommend spaghetti and meatballs.
Does it come with coke and fries?
It comes with either soup or salad and a complimentary glass of wine, sir.
I'll go with the spaghetti and meatballs, salad and the wine.
Excellent choice.
Your order will be ready soon.
How soon is soon?
Twenty minutes.
You know what?
I'll go grab a burger across the street.
What a waiter!
He is really angry at this customer and I can't blame him.
I would be angry too.
Yeah.
So, I think, Marco, you have chosen some interesting expressions for us here.
What is the first one?
Well, the first one is I'm still working on it.
I'm still working on it.
Why don't we listen to some other examples on how you can use this word and then we'll
come back and explain it.
Did you finish reading the magazine?
Did you fix my car?
Ah, so you could say I'm still working on it means I still need more time.
Fantastic.
Great.
OK, it's clear.
I have another one for you guys.
It's a phrase commonly used and you'll hear it all the time.
Coke and fries.
It's a short way of saying Coca-Cola and French fries.
So that's basically America's fast food.
Yeah, burger, coke and fries.
OK.
What's next on the menu?
On the menu we have a complimentary glass of wine.
Complimentary glass of wine.
Complementary means?
That it's free.
Free.
Yes.
We love that, huh?
Yeah, we definitely like free things.
Well, I have another one for us here, another interesting phrase.
I'll go with.
So basically it's another way of saying I'm choosing.
Yeah, I'll choose or I'll take.
I'll take.
OK, very good.
Alright, the next word that I want to take a look at is grab.
Grab.
OK, now let's listen to some other examples of how we could use grab in different situations
and then we'll come back and explain it.
On your way home, can you grab some milk?
Wait for me, please.
I need to grab my coat.
Let's grab a cup of coffee.
All right, well, I would understand that go grab means go get quickly.
To go get quickly, yeah.
All right, everyone.
So now it's time to listen one more time to the dialogue and listen carefully and try
to understand why the waiter doesn't like the customer.
Let's listen.
Does it come with Coke and fries?
I'll just go grab a burger across the street.
Marco, why did this waiter get angry at the customer?
Well, he basically wasted the waiter's time.
I mean, this guy comes into the restaurant.
He is not very polite and he's asking all these questions.
In the end, he just gets up and says, I'll just go grab a burger across the street.
Yeah, and I also think that this guy was a lot more casual than the place he was in,
right?
Yeah, yeah.
I think this was a nice, fancy restaurant.
So I think he was in the wrong place.
So how many times, Marco, tell me, do you really have fast food a week?
Fast food, let's see, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday.
No, I'm just kidding.
Oh my God.
No, no.
I think I get fast food maybe once a week, once or twice a week.
All right, talking about fast food made me hungry.
So I think I'm going to go grab something to eat myself.
Yeah, me too.
All right.
I hope you guys enjoyed the lesson today and remember that all of this vocabulary is useful
for your everyday needs.
Well, actually here in EnglishPod, we focus on phrases and words that are high frequency
and that means that you can use them every day in your practical life.
Exactly.
And be sure to go to our website at EnglishPod.com where you can find many other resources and
you can leave your questions and comments at our community forum.
So thank you very much for listening.
We'll be back tomorrow with another great lesson for you.
So until then, bye.
Bye.
Hello English learners and welcome to EnglishPod. My name is Marco.
Amira and I are here today with another interesting and useful lesson for you English learners.
Amira, why don't you explain a little bit of what this lesson is about today?
It's about calling in sick.
Oh, okay. That's useful.
Yes, definitely. It happens to everyone once in a while. You don't feel so well or you
feel well but you don't want to go to work.
Right.
So, you call in sick.
Okay. Okay. Let's listen to this dialogue and I want everyone to keep their ears open
and see if the boss believes this person.
Hello, Daniel speaking. How may I help you?
Hi Daniel. Julie here.
Oh, hi Julie. How are you?
Actually, I'm feeling quite ill today.
Oh, I'm sorry to hear that. What's wrong?
I think I'm coming down with the flu. I have a headache, a sore throat, a runny nose and
I'm feeling slightly feverish.
I see. So, you're calling in sick.
Yes. I was hoping to take the day off to recover.
Okay then. Try and get some rest.
Marco do you think he believed her?
No, I don't think he believed her. He didn't sound really convinced.
Yes, and Julie didn't sound really sick, huh?
Exactly. Well, we have some really good vocabulary here. Amiro, why don't you begin with the
first one?
The first phrase I've chosen for you is a very, very useful one. I'm feeling quite ill
today.
I'm feeling quite ill today.
Alright. What does this mean exactly?
It means that she's feeling sick.
Oh, okay. That's clear. So, she is sick. She's feeling sick.
Okay, let's look at another really useful phrase and this one is I'm coming down with
the flu.
I'm coming down with the flu.
Alright and this phrase means that I am starting to get the flu or I am getting the flu.
Okay. The next phrase I have for you is calling in sick.
Calling in sick.
It means calling your boss to tell him that you can't come to work today. I personally
love this phrase because it saves so much time and explanations.
Okay, perfect. So, if I say this then everyone will know that I am not coming to work today.
Yes, definitely.
Perfect. Alright. And the last phrase that we're going to take a look at today is I was
hoping to take the day off.
I was hoping to take the day off.
Right. And she says this to ask for permission because she does not want to go to work.
Okay. Now, couldn't she just say like I can't come today?
Right. She could say I can't come today but that would be a little bit impolite.
Okay. So, when she says I was hoping to take the day off, it's a polite way of asking.
It's a polite way. Exactly. Because she is talking to her boss.
Very good. So, let's listen to the dialogue one more time.
The dialogue is a little different this time. Listen carefully and see if you think the
boss believes her this time.
I see. So, you're calling in sick?
Okay, guys. We're back and I do think he believed her this time.
Yeah, I think he was understanding when he said, okay then, try and get some rest.
Yeah, and Julie sounded pretty sick.
Yes, yes she did.
Yeah, it was convincing.
Well, you know what? I almost called in sick last week.
Really?
Yeah, I wasn't feeling very well and so I almost didn't come to work.
Oh, that would have been really bad for me. I would have been stuck here without you, Marco.
Yeah, you would have had to do the podcast all by yourself.
Oh no.
You know, actually, I had the same symptoms as Julie. I also had a headache and I had
a sore throat and also the worst thing and the thing that I hate the most is I had a
runny nose.
Oh no, that's really bad because then you have to like blow your nose all the time and
then it gets red and it hurts, right?
Exactly, yeah. Luckily, I didn't have a fever though.
Oh, thank God.
So did you take some medicine and it just killed everything?
Yeah, I had a friend and he had some pills for the flu and he just gave me a couple and
I felt better in about two days.
Oh, great. Well, so guys, let me tell you about a very funny thing that really happens
in real life in Egypt.
What story do you have for us today?
Well, it's actually not a story. It's a fact. I mean, people in Egypt, when they're sick,
they never call in sick themselves. They'll have someone do that for them.
Oh, that's interesting. Why? Why do they do this?
Well, there is this weird speculation about, you know, if you can make it to the phone, you can make it to the office.
I agree. I agree. If I were a boss, I would do the same thing.
All right, listeners, we're out of time today, but be sure to visit our website at EnglishPod.com
where you can see other lessons and also you can leave your questions and comments at our
community forum.
We hope you enjoyed our lesson and tomorrow we will be back with another fantastic lesson
for you. But for now, it's bye.
Amira and I are here today with an interesting lesson about a hotel situation.
Amira, why don't you give us a little bit more information?
Well, the situation is taking place in a hotel and someone is checking in and is obtaining
an upgrade.
An upgrade, okay, that's an interesting word.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue and then we'll come back and explain all this vocabulary.
Good afternoon.
What can I do for you?
I'd like to check in please.
I have a reservation under the name Anthony Roberts.
Roberts.
Oh, Mr. Roberts, we've been expecting you.
And here is your key card to the presidential suite.
But there must be some mistake.
My reservation was for a standard room.
Are you sure?
Let me double check.
Yeah, here, this is my confirmation number.
You're right, Mr. Roberts.
There seems to be a mix up.
Unfortunately, we're overbooked at the moment.
So?
Not to worry.
We're pleased to offer you a complimentary upgrade.
Presidential suite, baby!
Okay, everyone, that is nice, huh?
Yeah, the guy is really excited that he's gonna get the presidential suite.
Yes, there's some interesting phrases and vocabulary items here.
And I know, Marco, you want to talk about some of them.
Right, the first one, and this is really useful for all of our listeners who travel a lot.
This phrase will come in handy and it is, I have a reservation under the name.
Under the name.
So before we explain this phrase, let's listen to some examples on how it is used in other
situations and then we'll come back and give you more information.
Alright some really good examples there on how we could use this phrase in other situations.
But just in case, let me explain it real fast.
Under the name means that when you go to the restaurant or a hotel and you tell them your
name, they know that you are the person that they have been expecting, they have been waiting.
Well, I have chosen another useful phrase for you and it is mix up.
Mix up.
Before we talk about this phrase, let's listen to some examples of how it is used.
There was a mix up at the airport and my bags were sent to Antarctica.
I'm sorry sir, there's been a terrible mix up.
We've given you the wrong baby.
Okay that was useful and funny.
Yeah, that's the baby situation.
Oh my god.
I can't imagine that happening.
Yeah, I know.
Well guys, so a mix up is a confusion or a misunderstanding.
Exactly, well put.
Alright Marco, what do you have for us?
Okay, the next word that we should take a look at is overbooked.
Overbooked.
What does that mean?
So if a hotel or a flight is overbooked, it means that they are full.
They are more than full.
Right, so they cannot accept any more people.
Okay, now why is this phrase useful?
Because it happens all the time.
There's so many other situations where you can use this word or hear it from other native
English speakers.
For example, a bus or a train can be overbooked.
Exactly, that's really common.
Okay, let's take a look at the last phrase for today and that is complimentary upgrade.
Complimentary upgrade.
So this means that, for example, when the hotel is overbooked and all of their standard
rooms are full, they will give you a better room, a more expensive room, but free.
Yes, because it was not your fault.
Right, this also happens sometimes, if you're lucky, on airplane flights.
So if you are in economy class and an airplane, but for some reason it's overbooked, they
will move you to business class or first class for free.
I have a similar story, but I'm not going to tell you about it now.
For now, let's go and listen to the dialogue one more time and when we come back, we'll
talk some more.
Good afternoon, what can I do for you?
I'd like to check in, please.
All right, Roberts.
Oh, Mr. Roberts, we've been expecting you and here is your key card to the presidential
suite.
You're right, Mr. Roberts, there seems to be a mix up.
Not to worry, we're pleased to offer you a complimentary upgrade.
Woohoo!
I love listening to this dialogue.
It's just so nice to see that someone is enjoying his upgrade so much.
Yeah, especially since he was expecting just a really normal room and now he's going to
be treated like a king.
So Marco, have you ever gotten a complimentary upgrade?
Yes, yes, I did.
When I was traveling through India, I bought a normal seat in the train.
But for some reason, it was overbooked.
So I talked to the station manager and I got a complimentary upgrade to first class.
I had a similar experience as well.
I was flying from Shanghai to Qatar and I actually had an economy seat, but for some
reason they just upgraded me and I was so happy.
Oh, really?
Like it wasn't overbooked?
Well, I'm not sure because normally the night flight is not that full, but they upgraded
me for some reason and I was so happy.
It was an upgrade to first class.
Wow, that's really cool.
I would prefer a first class upgrade on an airplane, yeah, any day.
Well, you know what really amazed me was like the food you get there.
You know, you have a five course meal.
And you get all the drinks you can get, right?
Yeah, I would be really happy there.
All right, everyone, we're out of time today, but be sure to listen tomorrow because we'll
be back again with another great podcast.
And also, don't forget to go to our website at EnglishPod.com and leave us all your questions
and comments in our community forum.
Yes, and we would also appreciate your suggestions.
And I hope you enjoyed the lesson today and Marco and I will be back tomorrow with another
great lesson for you.
But for now, it's bye!
Hello everyone and welcome to EnglishPod.
Hey Amira, how are you today?
I'm doing great.
What about you?
I'm doing pretty good.
I'm excited about this lesson that you have for us today.
Yes, it's actually a very, very useful lesson.
It's about someone asking his boss for an assistant.
Oh, okay, an assistant.
What's an assistant?
Well, it's someone who helps you with your work around the office.
Okay, great.
So let's listen to this dialogue and when we come back, we'll take a look at all the
interesting and useful vocabulary that you'll find.
Like I told you before, we just don't have the resources to hire you an assistant.
I understand that, but the fact is we're understaffed.
The timing is just not right.
The economy is bad and it's too risky to take on new staff.
Yeah, I guess you're right.
Here's an idea.
What if we hire an intern?
She would take some of the weight off my shoulders.
She?
Yeah, you know, a recent graduate.
She could give me a hand with some of these projects and we could keep our costs down.
That sounds reasonable.
Let me see what I can do.
Tony, I'd like to introduce you to your new assistant.
Let's meet her.
Hi, I'm Adam.
Oh, hi, I'm Tony.
And we're back.
Tony, he's surprised, huh?
Yeah, he's, I don't know why though he's surprised.
I think we should talk about that a little bit later.
Yes, for now, let's look at some interesting vocabulary.
So, let's start with the first one.
He could give me a hand with some of these projects and we could keep our costs down.
But, I don't know why though he's surprised, I think we should talk about that a little
bit later.
Yes, for now, let's look at some interesting vocabulary and phrases here.
Marco, I know you've chosen one for us.
Yeah, the first one that I want to take a look at is resources.
Resources.
And that means in this text, basically money.
So, the office doesn't have enough money.
Okay, I've chosen another interesting word for you and that's money.
Money.
Okay, so, money.
Now, you understand now that they're working quiteLaughs.
So, I changed my felt to the word ominous and I swapped one with my last name.
Okay.
The next one here is happened a few years ago.
It's around this time that the city chief found someone who was stuck in the cajon and
my wife started following him and making him listen to what he could tip me on, given
that the city's safest place for coming in on his lucky day was Pサラロールカー
cite umbrella container sink, so, that's what the picture shows, the woman who's
known for climbing mountains faster than the coffee vines.
working there. They don't have enough workers. Right, they don't have enough
employees. Perfect, okay. The next one is timing is just not right. The timing is
just not right. The timing is just not right. The timing is just not right. Okay,
let's listen to how we can use this entire phrase in a different situation
so then we can understand what it means. Let's listen. I was gonna sell my house
but the timing is just not right. Honey, I think we should have a baby. The timing
is just not right. Okay, great. I guess that makes it clear. Yes, actually it's
very obvious that it means that it's just not a good time. Right, perfect. I
have another interesting phrase for you which is weight off my shoulders. Weight
off my shoulders. Weight off my shoulders. Weight off my shoulders. So to take
weight off my shoulders is another way of saying to help me with my work or to
take some of my work away from me. If you have a lot of things to do and I come
and help you that means that I took some of the weight off your shoulders. Yes.
Let's look at the next phrase that we have here and it's give me a hand. Give
me a hand. Give me a hand. Give me a hand. Okay, now this is not literal. It's not
that I'm gonna give you somebody's hand, right? Let's listen to some examples and
then we can come back and explain what it means. Can you give me a hand with
these boxes?
Neil, I'll need you to give me a hand with the sales reports. Here, let me give
you a hand with your suitcase.
All right, give me a hand is another way of saying help or to help out. Exactly, to
help out. Right. Perfect. Now, the last phrase we're going to look at here in
this dialogue is keep our costs down. Keep our costs down. Keep our costs down.
Keep our costs down. So, to keep our costs down means to try and not spend so
much money. Exactly. Many companies, for example, now control how much printing
you do. Yes. Right. To keep the cost down of paper. Yes. So, in other words, they do
not want to have unnecessary spending. Perfect. Okay, I think it's time for us to
listen to this dialogue one more time but I want everyone to listen and see
why Tony is surprised at the end when he meets his intern, when he meets his
assistant. Like I told you before, we just don't have the resources to hire you an
assistant. I understand that but the fact is we're understaffed. The timing is just
not right. The economy is bad and it's too risky to take on new staff. Yeah, I
guess you're right. Here's an idea. What if we hire an intern? She would take some
of the weight off my shoulders. She? Yeah, you know, a recent graduate. She could
give me a hand with some of these projects and we could keep our costs down.
That sounds reasonable. Let me see what I can do.
Tony, I'd like to introduce you to your new assistant. Okay, great. Let's meet her.
Hi, I'm Adam. Oh, hi, I'm Tony. Well, you know Marco, I think that Tony was really
surprised because he was kind of hoping to have a female intern. Yeah, I think
that's exactly what he was expecting. Maybe this guy is a little bit sexist. He
thought that an intern should be a girl but instead he was... Instead he got Adam.
Exactly and it looks like Adam is really big and really tall because he's got
that deep voice. Right. An intern, Marco, do you want to elaborate on that? Working
at a company with a very low salary or sometimes no salary at all but what
you're gaining is experience and you are learning a lot of things. Everyone who
has been an intern or had an intern knows that sometimes they are not
treated all that well. Sometimes they just serve coffee or they have to do
paperwork. Or like photocopying things. Exactly. Yeah. But some internships are
really, really cool and some are really good experiences for learning. Yes,
definitely. Actually, I know a friend of mine, she used to work as an intern in
one of those really big companies and she told me that she has gained so much
experience doing that. Yeah, I mean even if you don't get paid, the experience
that you get is really good and that just opens doors for maybe getting
another job or sometimes the interns get hired by the company to stay because
they do such a good job. Yeah, I think that's mostly the case. Yeah, that
happened to me once. I started working as an intern and after three months I was
hired by the company so it does happen. So you did a good job. Yeah, of course.
Alright folks, we're out of time today. I hope that you enjoyed our lesson and
we'll be back tomorrow with another really cool and really interesting
lesson from EnglishPod. Don't forget to come to our website at EnglishPod.com
where you'll find some really great and interesting resources to help you learn
and improve your English even more. Yes, you should definitely do that and Marco
and I would love to receive your comments and suggestions that you can
leave on our community forum. But for now it's time for us to say bye!
All right, Amira is here today and she is going to tell us about the wonderful lesson
she has prepared this time.
Well, thank you, Marco.
Well, today we have a very interesting lesson prepared for you.
It's about someone cutting in line.
Cutting in line, okay.
Yeah, it happens all the time and we all get very upset about it but, you know, it happens.
Right, right.
Well, I imagine that everyone is wondering what cutting in line is.
Why don't we just listen to the dialogue one time and then when we come back Amira and
I will gladly explain all the vocabulary in this dialogue.
I can't believe it took us two hours to get here.
The traffic in New York is unbelievable.
Yeah, but just relax honey.
We're here and we're going on vacation.
In a few hours we'll be in Hawaii and you'll be on the golf course.
Oh no, look at that line.
It must be a mile long.
There's no way I'm waiting for another two hours.
Honey, don't.
Hey man, the end of the line is over there.
No, seriously, I was here first and you can't cut in line like this.
Says who?
I do.
So sue me.
Alright, that's it.
Whoa, I think there's punching.
Yeah, I guess this guy was just a crazy, I don't know, impatient man, huh?
Yes, yes, but we don't want to talk about this now.
But for now, we will treat some of the vocabulary and very useful phrases in the dialogue.
So, Marco, do you want to start?
Let's take a look at our first word would be unbelievable.
Unbelievable.
Unbelievable. Exactly, and just how you say it, it's something
incredible, something amazing.
Yeah, but I would like to point out that unbelievable was used here to describe the man's frustration.
He's not happy about the traffic in New York.
Perfect.
Okay, in the next part, the woman, she's trying to calm and relax her husband.
And she says that they'll be in Hawaii in a few hours and you'll be on the golf course.
So, we'll be in Hawaii and you'll be on the golf course.
Yes, we'll be in Hawaii and you'll be on the golf course.
So, this is a great way of talking about your physical location in the future.
So, for example, Amira, tomorrow where will you be?
Don't worry, Marco, I'll be in the office tomorrow.
Perfect, right?
That's where I need you to be.
All right, well, I have another interesting phrase here for you.
Must be a mile long.
A mile long.
Now, that's basically not a mile, it's not a kilometer long, but it's another way of
saying that this line is really, really long.
Right, it's just an exaggeration.
Now let's take a look at there's no way.
There's no way.
Let's listen to some other examples on how we use there's no way in a different situation
and then we can come back and talk about it a little bit more.
There's no way I can have those reports finished today.
The stadium is so crowded that there's no way we'll find a seat.
Do you think Michael's going to buy that house?
There's no way he has enough money to buy it.
So there's no way is another way of saying it is impossible.
There's no way you should miss this podcast, right?
Well, I have another phrase for you as well.
Cut in line.
So again, we have some really good examples on how you could use this phrase in different
situations.
Let's listen to the examples and then we can come back and talk about it some more.
Excuse me, I'm really late.
Can I cut in line, please?
I hate it when people cut in line at the bank.
It's so rude.
I think it's okay when a pregnant woman cuts in line.
So from the examples, we can understand that it means when you are standing in line somewhere
and somebody gets in front of you.
I have another phrase for you here.
Sue me.
Now, sue me is not a nice phrase.
If you hear that, you know you're in trouble.
Yeah, it's kind of rude, I guess, to say, sue me.
Well, it actually means like taking someone to court and asking for money because someone
has harmed you in a way.
I think that we should listen to the dialogue one more time and try to figure out why he
used that phrase and if he's really going to take him to court.
Yeah, but just relax, honey.
In a few hours, we'll be in Hawaii and you'll be on the golf course.
Oh, no.
Look at that line.
Hey, man, the end of the line is over there.
So, sue me.
All right, that's it.
All right, we're back.
Now, this guy, when he says sue me, he's just being rude.
I mean, he's just being kind of impolite and telling him, I don't care.
Right, exactly.
Like, you can't do anything about it.
Today in the studio, we have a guest.
Her name is Sarah and she's from England.
Hi there.
Hello.
So, we're going to be asking her a couple of questions and she'll be a frequent guest
on our show, so you can expect to hear from her a lot.
Well, she didn't know that.
Yeah, it's a surprise.
She knows now.
Well, Sarah, our topic today is about jumping the queue.
Okay, Amira, wait.
What is this jump the queue?
It's the same as cut in line, but in British English.
Ah, okay.
Yes, queuing is very important in England.
We're very proud of our queues.
It's true.
So what would be the reaction of people if they cut in line?
I think we do take it very seriously.
I'm laughing now, but it's quite serious.
So you don't dump the queue.
If people jump in front of you, you get a little tuts and you shouldn't be doing that.
We make it very obvious.
So you say it out loud?
We would, you know, perhaps say something.
And we have systems, you know, in London on the Metro, on the underground, you have to
stand on the escalators on the right and queue, and you can't jump in front.
You have to walk on the left and queue on the right.
And it's all very serious.
There's rules and regulations.
Is there like a queue handbook that you have to read in high school and kind of take a
test on?
Perhaps there should be.
There should be, yeah.
Wow.
What about New York, Marco?
Well, no, definitely, I guess this dialogue is similar to a reality of New York.
If somebody gets in front of you or cuts the line, somebody is going to say something and
probably end up in a fight if the guy is rude.
Well, Sarah, why don't you tell us, is there a line or a queue for almost everything in
England?
It seems like we do just like to form a queue.
So, you know.
Can you think of like some other examples of where you would normally you wouldn't queue,
but you do?
Oh, gosh.
Things like in the supermarket when you're trying to find some vegetables or something,
I'd never push, I'd never sort of reach around or anything.
I'd just wait until that person had finished picking up their stuff and then go in.
So, just try and...
So if like five people want to buy oranges at the supermarket, then you have a little
mini queue of five people waiting.
There's no sort of just shoving through to the front.
You just don't do that.
So you don't stick your hand out and grab like a tomato.
If you do, again, you would make sure that that person knows, oh, I'm sorry, I'm just
in a hurry or whatever.
But yeah, it's just letting someone go before you.
It's a courtesy, I think.
It's quite important to us.
Well, thank you so much, Sarah.
It was a pleasure.
Yeah, we'll have you back very soon.
So, all right, we're out of time, but we'll be back tomorrow with another lesson.
And be sure to visit our website.
Don't forget that EnglishPod.com has many, many resources and also a community of users
and teachers that can help you answer questions and interact with you.
And you should definitely leave your suggestions.
But for now, I wish you all well and bye.
And I'm Erika.
How are you, Erika?
Marco, I'm doing really well.
How about you?
I'm really excited because today we're talking about travel.
That's right.
We're going to give you some real English to talk about travel.
English that you would use in everyday life, that you hear in movies and TV shows.
English people actually use.
So why don't you tell us a little bit about this lesson for today?
Okay, so today we are going to listen as a husband and wife get ready to go on a trip.
That sounds a little bit complicated.
Uh-huh.
Well, let's look at our two preview words.
Vocabulary Preview.
So the first word that we have is road trip.
Road trip.
So road trips are really fun and interesting, right?
Road trips are great.
You get to get in a car with your family and drive on a vacation.
Yeah, those are really fun and they're really popular in North America.
Really popular.
I've been on a million road trips.
We'll talk about that a little bit later on.
But now, let's take a look at our second word and it's the car's packed.
The car's packed.
The car is packed.
So when your car is packed, it means that...
Everything you need is inside the car.
So your bags, your food, everything that you need for your trip.
So those were our two preview words and now we are ready to listen to the dialogue for
the first time.
This dialogue will be at normal speed.
It will be fast.
But don't worry if you don't understand everything.
After 10 minutes, we promise you will understand everything in this lesson.
So are we all ready to go?
Yep.
I think so.
We have munchies and music and the map's in the car.
Did you get the camera?
Got it.
Did you fill up the tank?
It's all set.
You're sure we're not forgetting anything?
I'm sure.
We've got all our bases covered.
Well, let's get going then.
I love road trips.
Do you think we can make a pit stop?
But we've only been on the road for 10 minutes.
I know.
But I forgot to go to the bathroom before we left.
Well she forgot to go to the bathroom.
I hate it when this happens.
This happens to me on almost every road trip.
So now it's time for our language takeaway.
We have three words for our language takeaway today.
Language takeaway.
And the first word is munchies.
Munchies.
So munchies are...
Snacks.
Food.
Chips.
Cookies.
Chocolate bars.
All that good stuff.
I love munchies.
And they're really good when you're taking a road trip.
Indeed.
So let's take a look at our second language takeaway word for today.
And it is fill up the tank.
Fill up the tank.
So this is to...
Put gas in your car.
Put gas in the gas tank.
In the gas tank.
Our last language takeaway today is...
Pit stop.
Make a pit stop.
It's a quick stop for you to get some gas, food, go to the bathroom.
A pit stop.
A quick stop.
So now it's time for putting it together.
Putting it together.
So we have two great phrases for you today.
Let's take a look at the first one.
This is a really great phrase and it's really useful, right?
Let's listen to a couple of examples.
Example one.
We've got all our bases covered in case the hurricane hits.
Example two.
I have my keys, wallet, and passport.
Looks like I have all my bases covered.
It's clear now, but you can use this in a lot of different situations, right?
You can use this in many situations.
If I'm at work, I could say, all right, we've got a really good marketing plan.
You have everything ready.
You're all prepared.
Now, let's take a look at our second phrase and it's, let's get going.
Let's get going.
So, when you say, let's get going, it just means...
Let's start.
Let's go.
But the interesting thing about this phrase is you can change it a little bit and it means
something different.
I have the chicken, so let's get cooking.
This house is really scary.
Let's get out of here.
Example three.
I have another meeting in 20 minutes, so let's get down to business.
So let's get down to business, Marco.
Let's get down to business.
Let's listen to the dialogue one more time, but this time...
It'll be a little bit slower and you'll understand much better.
Yep, I think so.
The car's packed, we have munchies and music, and the map's in the car.
Yep, it's all set.
Um, do you think we can make a pit stop?
I know, but I forgot to go to the bathroom before we left.
So that was a little more clear this time, wasn't it?
Yeah, you can definitely understand better about what we've been talking about.
Okay, so now it's time to look at Fluency Builder.
Erika, why don't you explain what Fluency Builder is?
In Fluency Builder, we give you some great, useful phrases to help you express your ideas
clearly.
So let's look at Fluency Builder.
Fluency Builder.
All right, so we all know how to ask the question, are we ready to go?
Can we go now?
Or you can say, are we ready to go?
But there's another way that we can say this, and we heard it in our dialogue.
So let's listen.
Wow, that sounds really good.
It sounds a lot more fluent.
Fluent, exactly.
Okay, so another simple phrase that we all know how to say is, it is ready.
It is prepared.
It is ready.
So these examples are fine.
They're right.
Yeah, they're correct English, no problem.
But there's another way to say this that we heard in the dialogue, and it sounds a lot
more fluent.
That sounds much better.
Yes, and we're all set to listen to this dialogue for a third time, and this time it's going
to be at its normal speed.
So, Erika, you said you've been on a million road trips.
What was that all about?
Where have you been?
Okay, well, maybe not a million road trips, but many road trips.
Every summer I used to go on a road trip with my family, and we would drive many, many hours,
probably eight hours in one day, up to northern Canada.
Oh, wow, nice.
Yeah, and then we would go camping, and we would sleep outside, and we would have a campfire
at night.
It was great.
Ah, family road trip.
Yeah, but maybe eight hours in a car is a little too long.
Well, yeah.
Well, I've been on a different kind of road trip with some buddies of mine, some friends.
We would drive to Las Vegas.
So that's really fun.
A bunch of crazy guys in a car going to Las Vegas, and then just having fun and talking
about everything.
So that's a much different experience than a family road trip.
Maybe that sounds a little bit more fun.
Yeah, eight hours in a car is not really that boring with all your friends.
All right, folks, we're out of time for today, but be sure to visit our website at EnglishPod.com
and leave all your questions and comments.
Okay, well, thanks for listening, and until next time, goodbye.
Hey Erika, how are you today?
Marco, I'm doing really well and I'm really looking forward to today's lesson.
Well so am I because here at EnglishPod we're giving you real English.
Everyday English.
Exactly, English that you hear in movies or in TV shows.
This is English people actually use.
So Erika, what is our topic for today?
Well today we're talking about computer viruses.
Perfect, so I think it's time for us to take a look at our preview.
Okay, today we've got two words to preview.
The first word is virus.
Virus.
So, if your computer has a computer virus, it means your computer is sick, right?
Actually a computer virus is a program that is designed to harm or to damage your computer.
Oh I see, okay.
Well, thank you for being so technical.
That's the technical explanation.
Okay, let's take a look at our second word for our preview today and that would be froze.
Froze.
So, if your computer froze, it means that...
Your computer stopped working.
Your applications or your programs stopped working and you just can't do anything.
Your computer is broken.
So, let's listen to our dialogue.
It's going to be a little bit fast but...
Don't worry if you don't understand everything.
At the end of this podcast, you'll understand everything.
Perfect, let's listen.
Oh great, the stupid computer froze again.
It's the third time today.
Hey Samuel, can you come take a look at my PC?
It's acting up again.
It must have a virus or something.
Just give me a second, I'll be right up.
I ran a virus scan on your computer and it turns out that you have a lot of infected
files.
But I'm quite careful when I'm browsing the internet.
I have no idea how I could have picked up a virus.
Well, you have to make sure their antivirus software is updated regularly.
Yours wasn't up to date.
That's probably what was causing your problems.
Okay, anything else?
Yeah, try not to kick or hit the computer.
Um, yeah, sorry about that.
Well I completely understand this guy.
When my computer freezes, I kick it and punch it and do everything to it.
I hope you don't punch it too hard, Marco.
Well it's still working so it's alright.
Alright, let's take a look at our language takeaway.
In today's language takeaway, we have two words.
The first word for today is infected file.
Infected file.
And what is an infected file?
An infected file is a file in your computer that has a virus in it.
Ah, perfect.
That's really clear.
What is our second word for the language takeaway today?
Our second word is not up to date.
Not up to date.
And what is it when something is not up to date?
It means it doesn't have all the most recent information.
Okay, perfect.
Now let's listen to some examples.
I need to buy a new computer because mine isn't up to date.
I can't find the street.
Are you sure this map is up to date?
Sarah has just finished the reports and all the information is up to date.
Okay, that was pretty clear.
You know, you can also use this phrase positively.
You can say up to date.
Okay, for example, we can say this is a new map.
This is the most up to date map.
Or if I bought a new computer, I could say I just got a new computer.
All my software is up to date.
So now let's take a look at some phrases.
And it's time for putting it all together.
Okay, so Samuel said a really great phrase.
He said, I'll be right up.
I'll be right up.
Now, we can use this phrase in a lot of different situations.
So let's listen to some examples.
Can you help me with my computer?
I'll be right there.
Come downstairs.
Dinner is ready.
I'll be right down.
Hurry up.
I need to use the bathroom.
I'll be right out.
Okay, really great and clear examples, right?
Yeah, you know that phrase, I'll be right out.
I used to hear this all the time when I was young.
How come?
Well, I have two sisters and we were always fighting for the bathroom.
So someone was always saying, just a minute, I'll be right out.
Ah, yes, that's common.
I had that too when I was young.
Okay, now our second phrase is, it turns out that.
It turns out that.
This is a great phrase.
You can use it in many different situations.
Marco, can you give us an example?
Sure.
For example, I can say, Frank didn't come to work today and it turns out that he was
sick.
Or I could say, oh, I've been feeling really sick recently.
Why?
It turns out that I'm pregnant.
Are you really pregnant?
No, I'm not.
I'm just kidding.
So it's time for us to listen to our dialogue again, but this time it'll be a little bit
slower.
Oh great.
This stupid computer froze again.
That's the third time today.
Just give me a second.
Well, you have to make sure that your antivirus software is updated regularly.
It's probably what was causing your problems.
Anything else?
Try not to kick or hit the computer.
Um, yeah.
Sorry about that.
That was a lot more clear this time.
Definitely.
I understood a lot more.
So now it's time to look at Fluency Builder.
In Fluency Builder, we give you some great useful phrases to help you express your ideas
So in this dialogue, we know his computer wasn't working.
So many students would probably say his computer was acting strangely.
His computer isn't working properly.
And that's perfect and that's fine.
But there's a really great way to say it that we heard in the dialogue.
I love this phrase.
It's acting up.
It just sounds really natural.
It sounds really natural.
We're going to listen to our dialogue a third time, but this time it'll be at the normal
speed.
Try and see if you can hear these key words.
Oh, great.
The stupid computer froze again.
Hey, Samuel.
Can you come take a look at my PC?
So Marco, I really think that my computer actually has a virus now.
I've been turning on my computer and then suddenly it turns off by itself.
It shuts down by itself.
That sounds like a virus.
But I ran a virus scan and there was no problem.
Well, maybe your antivirus software isn't up to date.
I guess I'd better call Samuel.
You can call Samuel to fix it.
All right, folks.
We're out of time now, but be sure to go to our website at EnglishPod.com where you can
leave all your questions and comments.
So stay tuned for our next great lesson.
And until next time, goodbye.
Hello English learners and welcome back to EnglishPod.
And I'm Erica.
How are you, Erica?
Marco, I'm doing really well today.
You excited?
We've got a great lesson for everyone.
Yes, we have a really common situation where we're going to use real English, right?
Yep, everyday English, English that people really use.
And that's what we want you to learn.
What are we talking about today specifically?
Today we have a really common situation that is a little bit embarrassing.
All right, an embarrassing situation.
So let's listen to the dialogue for the first time and it's going to be kind of fast.
Yeah, but don't worry if you don't understand everything because after 10 minutes you'll
understand everything.
All right, let's listen.
Nick, how's it going?
Oh, hey.
What are you doing in this neighborhood?
Do you live around here?
Actually, my office is right around the corner.
It was great to meet you last week at the conference.
I really enjoyed our conversation about foreign investment.
Yeah, yeah, it was really interesting.
You know, I'm in a bit of a hurry, but here's my card.
We should definitely meet up again and continue our discussion.
Sure, you still have my contact details, right?
This is really embarrassing, but your name has just slipped my mind.
Can you remind me?
My name is Anna Farris.
Don't worry about it.
It happens to me all the time.
I'm terrible with names too.
Wow, Nick forgot her name.
Yeah, that's happened to me a couple of times, and I'm going to tell you about it a little
All right, well, let's start with our three language takeaways.
So our first word on our language takeaway is in a bit of a hurry.
In a bit of a hurry.
So Nick was in a hurry.
Yeah, that's right.
So let's listen to three examples of how you can use this phrase.
Can you drive faster?
I'm in a bit of a hurry.
I can't talk right now.
I'm in a bit of a hurry, so I'll check these files later.
Okay, so it's clear now.
Basically it means that you don't have time.
You're moving really quickly.
Now let's look at our second language takeaway word, and it's contact details.
Contact details.
So what are your contact details?
Basically, this is the information you can find on your business card.
All right, so we have like our name, our telephone number.
Your email address, perhaps your mobile phone number.
So all the useful information so people can get in touch with you.
Yeah, so people can phone you or email you.
Okay, so contact details.
Okay, so our third word is slipped my mind.
Slipped my mind.
So this is a funny phrase.
It's kind of strange, right?
Yeah, slipped my mind.
It sounds very weird.
Okay, so now we're going to listen to two examples of this phrase.
Try and see if you can figure out what it means.
I'm sorry I forgot to respond to your email.
Just slipped my mind.
Don't you know what day it is today?
Oh, it's your birthday.
It completely slipped my mind.
Ah, so slipped my mind is like I forgot.
You forgot something.
So, accidentally.
Now it's time for putting it together.
All right, Erika, why don't you tell our listeners what putting it together is?
Well, putting it together helps you put language together.
It helps you be more fluent by knowing how words fit together.
So let's look at our first phrase today.
And it's around here.
Around here.
So this is like close by.
Close by.
We can say, for example, is there a bank around here?
So that's, is there a bank close to here?
Now, this phrase, around here, we can change it a little bit and it means something a little
bit different.
I could say, Marco, there's a great restaurant right around the corner.
And that would mean there is a great restaurant on the other street.
Around the corner.
And another example, we can say around there.
Around there.
So, for example, I can say, Los Angeles is a great city.
I used to live around there.
So you used to live near Los Angeles.
It's a really good phrase and it's really common.
Now, our next phrase in putting it together is terrible with.
Terrible with.
And I have a couple of examples that will show you how this phrase works.
You're terrible with numbers.
You can't even remember your own telephone number.
I'm terrible with directions.
I'm always getting lost.
I'm terrible with faces.
I can never remember what people look like.
I understand that.
I'm also terrible with numbers.
I can barely add two plus two.
Well, yeah, I guess not everyone is a numbers person.
I sometimes forget what people look like.
Uh-oh.
I think it's time for us to listen to our dialogue a second time.
OK, this time the dialogue will be a little bit slower.
So try and listen for some of the words we've just talked about.
You still have my contact details, right?
My name is Anna Faris.
So it's more clear now.
You can understand a lot better, right?
Yeah, that's true.
Now, it's time for us to take a look at Fluency Builder.
So with Fluency Builder, we take some very simple phrases and show you how you can be
more fluent or how you can...
Sound more native.
In the beginning of the dialogue, Anna said, Nick, how's it going?
Yeah, this is a great phrase.
It sounds really, really natural.
You know, sometimes I hear students say, how are you?
Or, how are you doing?
Those are two great phrases, but this one sounds really, really natural.
It just sounds more casual.
Yeah, let's listen again to that phrase from the dialogue.
How's it going?
So next time that you find a friend on the street, you can just say, hey, how's it going?
So Marco, have you ever forgotten someone's name?
Yeah, it's happened to me a couple of times.
And actually, the most embarrassing situation was that I forgot a family member's name.
No, a family member's name.
We had like a family reunion and there were a lot of aunts and uncles and cousins that
I hadn't seen in a while.
And I just forgot one of my uncle's names.
And I was...
Uh-oh, that's pretty embarrassing.
So what did you do?
Well, I had to ask one of my other cousins.
I'm like, hey, who is that guy?
He's like, oh, that's Uncle John.
I'm like, oh man, I totally forgot.
So it was really embarrassing because I didn't know what to call him.
So I just called him Uncle because I didn't know his name.
Hi, Uncle.
Oh, yeah.
So when that happens to me, when I'm in a business setting, sometimes what I do is I
ask for someone's card.
Yeah, that's the good technique.
Or sometimes I might ask them to write down their email because usually their full name
is spelled in their email address.
So that's my trick when I've forgotten someone's name.
That's a good trick.
And I guess a lot of our listeners can take your advice on that.
So I think it's time for us to listen to our dialogue one more time, this time at natural
It was really interesting.
You say this to me all the time.
Well, I hope that you've all enjoyed our lesson for today, and remember to check out
our website at EnglishPod.com.
Where you can find a lot of other resources and you can leave all your questions and comments.
Marco and I are always on the site, so we're happy to answer all of your questions.
So now it's time for us to say...
Goodbye.
Erica, today we are really excited, right?
Yeah, we've got a great lesson today, all about real English.
Exactly, English that you hear in movies and TV shows.
Yeah, speaking of movies, today's podcast takes place at the movies.
Exactly, and that's why it's so fun today.
And so before we listen to our dialogue, let's take a look at our vocabulary preview.
Vocabulary preview.
In today's vocabulary preview, we have two words.
And the first word is inconsiderate.
Inconsiderate.
So, Erica, what is it when someone is inconsiderate?
If someone's inconsiderate, they're not thinking about the feelings of other people.
For example, yesterday, I was on the subway and it was full.
And an old lady was standing there and no one got up to give her their seat.
That was pretty inconsiderate.
So now let's take a look at our second word and it's keep it down.
Keep it down.
So, why don't we listen to some examples on how we use keep it down so we can understand.
Excuse me.
Do you mind keeping it down?
It's after midnight.
Sorry.
I'm trying to study.
You mind keeping it down?
I'm trying to watch the game.
So that means be quiet.
Don't make so much noise.
I used to hear this one all the time from my mother.
I think we all did when we were children.
So now let's listen to the dialogue for the first time.
It's going to be kind of fast.
But don't worry about it if you can't understand everything.
By the end of today's lesson, you will understand this dialogue.
Those people in front of us are making so much noise.
It's so inconsiderate.
It's not such a big deal.
I can't hear a thing.
Can you keep it down?
Someone's phone is ringing.
Honey, I think it's your phone.
Did you forget to switch it off?
You're right.
It's so embarrassing.
I'm trying to watch a movie here.
I hate it when people's phones ring when I'm watching a movie.
I think everyone gets kind of angry, but we're going to talk about this a little bit later.
Why don't we take a look now at our language takeaway?
So the language takeaway is our most important words for today's lesson.
And our first word today is not such a big deal.
Not such a big deal.
So when something is not a big deal, it's not a big problem.
It's not important, right?
Okay, let's listen to some examples.
I can't get these files due by tomorrow.
It's okay.
I'm really sorry.
I'm going to be 10 minutes late for the meeting.
Peter and Liam are late too.
Now let's look at our second word and it's switch it off.
Switch it off.
So this word means to turn it off.
To turn something off.
Now we can use it in three different ways.
Yeah, this one is a little bit complicated because it changes a little bit depending
on how you use it.
So Marco, I think you've got some examples for us.
So for example, I can say, did you switch off your phone?
Or you could say, did you switch your phone off?
Or simply you can ask, did you switch it off?
I think this one is a little bit hard.
Let's look at a couple more examples.
So I can say, for example, switch off the TV.
Switch the TV off.
Or switch it off.
I think that's a little bit more clear.
But you know what?
We even had trouble with that one, didn't we?
We had to do it a couple of times.
Now let's look at our last word and it's can't hear a thing.
Can't hear a thing.
We have some examples for this phrase, so let's listen.
What's going on in there?
I don't know.
What?
I'm sorry.
This music is too loud.
So that's like saying, I can't hear.
I can't hear anything.
It's too loud.
So now we are ready to listen to our dialogue a second time.
It's going to be slower.
This time listen for some of the key words we were explaining.
That's so embarrassing.
Now with the dialogue slower, it's really understandable.
Yeah, I think you could catch those key words a lot better.
So now we are ready to look at putting it together.
So in putting it together, we help you use a great phrase in different ways.
And today's phrase is, do you mind?
Do you mind?
Okay, so let's listen to some examples on how you can use this phrase in different situations.
Do you mind holding my coat for me?
Oh, I forgot my wallet.
Do you mind paying for dinner?
Do you mind turning off your phone?
So this phrase is usually pretty polite.
I could say to you, Marco, do you mind holding my coat for me?
And that's really polite.
So would you mind, do you mind are very polite phrases.
But depending on your voice and how you use your tone, it could be a little bit sarcastic,
Yeah, it could be a little bit rude if you say, would you mind keeping it down?
Like we heard in our dialogue.
So that's not so polite.
Yeah, exactly.
I mean, in English, you have to be careful because your tone of voice tells the other
person how you're feeling.
If you're angry, sad, or just like in any other language.
So I mean, using a phrase like, do you mind is a great phrase, but make sure you keep
a positive tone in your voice.
So now that we've talked about all these great things, we can listen to the dialogue a third
time, but it'll be at its normal speed.
Oh, I can't hear a thing.
So I know that in different countries, there are different habits about watching movies.
Yeah, that's definitely true.
Erica, what's it like in Canada?
Well in Canada, it's really common to eat popcorn and candy and maybe chips while you're
watching a movie.
But, if your phone rings in the movie theater, this is a big problem.
I imagine it is.
I mean, I would be upset also.
What about in Ecuador?
Well, in Ecuador and in South America, usually people can bring in food from the outside.
Yeah, so it's not really uncommon, depending on the city, to find people bringing in chicken
or some sort of like really smelly food.
No way!
So, you get either really hungry or really upset, but that's what happens.
You know, I used to live in Switzerland, and in Switzerland you would have to eat before
you watch the movie.
There was no popcorn, no soda, no candy inside the movie theater.
Can you imagine that?
I could not live with that because the whole purpose of going to the movies is to have
some popcorn and relax and have a good time.
You can't have a movie without popcorn.
Okay, so we've talked a lot about how to ask someone to be quiet today, and I hope that
you'll go out and try a few of these phrases in your daily life.
Yes, and I hope also that you visit our website at EnglishPod.com and leave all your questions
and comments.
Marco and I are there every day, so we'll be happy to answer your questions, but until
next time, bye!
Bye!
Welcome back English learners.
My name is Marco and I am joined by...
Erika.
How are you Erika?
Marco and you?
Excellent.
I'm doing really well and I'm really excited about our lesson for today.
We've got an intermediate lesson today and we're going to study some real English.
English that you use every day, right?
English that native speakers really use.
So today, as Erika mentioned, we have an intermediate lesson and not only is it intermediate, but
it's a business lesson.
So today we're listening in to a sales meeting and we're going to learn some great useful
English to talk about sales strategies.
So we're going to learn English for sales strategies, for making suggestions and for
responding to suggestions.
So why don't we take a look at our vocabulary preview for today?
So our vocabulary preview is a part of our lesson when we teach you some really important
words that will help you to understand the dialogue better.
So that is what vocabulary preview is.
We have two words for you today and we can start off by looking at the first one.
Our first word today is drive sales.
Drive sales.
To drive sales.
And that means?
To increase sales.
To sell more.
So to drive sales.
So now let's look at our second word and it's an interesting one.
It's promotion.
Promotion.
So, Erika, what is a promotion exactly?
So here we're not really talking about getting a better job, right?
Not like a job promotion.
No.
We're talking about a marketing strategy.
So I can give you an example.
Suppose that I want to buy shampoo.
And if I go to the supermarket and I see buy one and get one free.
So that's a two for one.
That's a two for one promotion.
That's a sales promotion.
Or?
Perhaps the shampoo in the supermarket is less expensive than usual.
Maybe, yeah, usually maybe it costs $5 but today it costs $4.
So that's a really good marketing strategy.
So let's hear this word in our dialogue today.
So we are ready to listen to our dialogue.
It's going to be pretty fast.
So it might be a little bit difficult to understand.
But don't worry if you don't understand everything because later in this lesson we're going to
explain all the important words and phrases.
All right, people, we're holding this meeting today because we've got to do something about
our sales and we need to do it now.
I want concrete solutions.
How do you plan to drive sales?
Roger.
Well, in fact, we're the most expensive in the market.
So maybe we need to lower our prices to match the competitors.
Lower our prices.
Not very creative.
It'll never fly with Swan.
What kind of thinking is that?
Geez.
Anyone have a better plan?
Natalie.
Perhaps a promotion.
Maybe a two for one offer or something like that.
That's the same thing.
Bad idea.
Really bad idea.
Damn it, people.
Come on.
Think.
We're going to be here any minute.
Hello, Mr. Swan.
Oh, Mr. Swan.
Do we have any ideas yet?
Yes, Mr. Swan.
We were kind of considering a two for one offer to get more competitive.
A two for one promotion.
Hmm.
I kind of like the sound of that.
It sounds like something we should consider.
That's just what I was thinking.
In fact, it's a brilliant idea.
I'm glad we thought of that.
Very creative.
Okay, so an interesting manager, right?
I don't know about interesting.
Maybe I would think bad manager.
We're going to talk about him later on in the show.
But now, let's take a look at our language takeaway.
Okay, so language takeaway is the part of our lesson where we teach you the most important
words from the dialogue.
All these words that we are going to focus on can be found in today's dialogue.
So we have three words for you today.
Let's look at the first one.
Match the competitors.
So we have some examples for you so you can listen and try and see if you can figure out
what match the competitors really means.
We guarantee that we can match the competitors' lowest price.
It's impossible for us to match the competitors.
Our costs are just too high.
Do you think we can match our competitors' prices and still keep our quality high?
So I see that match the competitors means to be as good as or better than other companies
in the same industry.
All right, so let's move to our second word today for Language Takeaways and it is in
the market.
In the market.
We heard this phrase in the dialogue and it means in the industry.
I can say, for example, EnglishPod is the best language pod in the market.
So of all the podcasts that teach English, EnglishPod is the best.
Of course.
I'm not doubt about it.
I totally agree.
Or I can give you another example.
iPods are the most popular MP3 players in the market.
So of all the MP3 players in the world, iPods are the most popular.
So let's move to our final word for today and it is...
It'll never fly.
It will never fly.
So this phrase sounds a little bit strange.
Fly?
Are we talking about an airplane here?
What's going on?
But we're not.
So we're going to give you some examples and try and guess what it'll never fly really
means.
This marketing plan will never fly.
It's just too expensive.
What you want to sell bikinis in Alaska?
That'll never fly.
Brad told me his idea for a film script, but the story will never fly.
It's not interesting enough.
So it means it won't work.
It won't work.
It's not a good idea.
They'll never agree.
So now we've seen a lot of useful phrases and we are ready to listen to our dialogue
a second time.
But this time it's going to be slow.
So you'll be able to understand a little bit better and you'll be able to hear the words
and phrases we were just talking about.
All right, people.
We're holding this meeting today because we've got to do something about our sales and we
need to do it now.
How do you plan to drive sales, Roger?
Anybody else have a better plan?
Natalie?
Um, perhaps, um, a promotion, maybe a two for one offer or something like that.
The CEO will be here any minute.
In fact, that's a brilliant idea.
I hope everyone understands a lot better now.
And I hope everyone could listen out for some of those key words.
So now it's time for us to take a look at Fluency Builder.
So with Fluency Builder, we try to help you increase your fluency.
We take a word or phrase that you already know and show you how to say it a little bit
more naturally, a little bit more like a native English speaker.
And we have three of these words for you today.
Let's start with the first one.
So often students will say something like, I'll be here soon.
Or I will arrive soon.
And these sentences are correct.
They're totally fine, but I think there's a better way to say this.
And we heard it in the dialogue, so let's listen to what the person in the dialogue
said.
So, be here any minute.
He'll be here any minute.
It just sounds a little bit more natural.
I think I use this phrase quite often.
He'll be here soon.
So, let's move on to our second phrase for Fluency Builder.
So, this phrase will help you to learn how to say, I'm thinking about something in a
better sounding way.
So, you can say something like, we are thinking about a sales strategy.
Or that sounds like something we should think about.
And it's perfectly correct.
There's no problem with this.
But in the dialogue, we heard something a little bit different.
So, let's listen to it.
So, consider sounds like a pretty natural way of saying it.
And you know, I think it sounds really kind of smart.
It sounds more formal even.
A little more professional.
It's a good word.
Brilliant.
So, let's move on to our third word.
Marco, you already said our third word.
I actually did.
That's a great word right there.
A lot of people might say, that's a great idea or great.
But in the dialogue, we heard another way of saying the same idea.
That's a brilliant idea.
So, this is great.
But I would have to say that it's a little bit more British English.
I'd agree with you there.
But I also think it sort of gives more power to this idea that it's a good idea, brilliant
idea.
And it's a really, really good idea.
I like that word.
So, we're ready to listen to our dialogue again a third time, but at its normal speed.
Very bad idea.
In fact, it's a brilliant idea I'm glad we thought of that.
So listening to this dialogue makes you think about this boss.
I'm pretty sure everyone has had a manager or a supervisor that's similar to this guy.
Yeah, this boss, Clark, I would have to say he sounds like a terrible person to work for.
If you're a manager, you want to motivate your employees.
I think it's the most important thing a manager does is to encourage his or her employees
and to help support them to grow and to be better people in the job.
And this guy is totally not doing this.
And you can tell because they are a little bit scared of talking and he cuts them off
with saying, oh, it's a bad idea.
Give me a better idea and stuff like that.
Yeah, I could never work for a guy like this.
You know, my first boss that I had when I first entered the workforce, I was in a very
junior position and I was working for a large company and the general manager of the company,
he was amazing.
He was so encouraging.
He knew every single employee's name, first name, and he would make an effort to stop
and say hello and ask them how things were going.
And you know what?
This left me with such a good feeling about the company that I really wanted to work hard
for this company and try my best.
And I think that I've never met such a great boss as this guy.
No, I think that's true.
Especially if you have a boss that's encouraging and motivating like that, it makes you work
harder and makes you feel part of a really special team.
And that's something we can all agree on.
And I'm sure all our managers out there do the same.
Well, you know what?
I hope some of our listeners log on to our website and maybe they can tell us some experiences
with bad managers or good managers or if they are managers, how they handle things.
And hopefully they can use some of these great phrases that we talked about today.
And be sure everyone to visit our website at EnglishPod.com and where you can find a
lot of other information and really good resources to continue improving your English.
So thanks for listening today everyone and until next time, this is goodbye.
Hello everyone and welcome back to EnglishPod.
And today with Erika we have an upper intermediate lesson.
That's right, an upper intermediate lesson that's a little bit strange.
It's a little bit strange but it's a real English lesson because that's what we give
you here at EnglishPod.
So in today's lesson we've got a lot of really great language for you.
We've got language to help you to gossip better.
Gossip, why don't you explain it a little bit just in case.
Okay so if I gossip, I maybe share news or information about other people with my friends.
Like I might say something like, Marco, did you see what happened in ChinesePod today?
You'll never guess what I saw.
Exactly, that's gossip.
And we also have language today to describe things.
To describe strange things.
Strange things.
Alright so let's take a look at our vocabulary preview.
So in our vocabulary preview we'll look at a few important words that will help you to
understand the dialogue a little bit better.
Exactly and the first word is weird.
Weird.
Now this is a common word you probably hear all the time and in a lot of different situations.
So we wanted to explain it today.
Yeah, this word just means strange.
It's strange.
Weird person is a strange person.
But the thing about this word is if you are a young person, let's say under the age of
35, you'll probably use it about a hundred times a day.
It's just such a good sounding word, weird.
It is.
Okay but the thing is that even though it is probably more commonly used in American
English, it's still widely used for British English as well.
So but maybe in British English you would say something like...
Odd.
That's more common.
Okay, let's look at our second word.
Housewarming gift.
Now this is a cultural thing.
It's really common in North America to give a housewarming gift to someone.
Yeah, if I move into a new house, maybe some of my friends or family will bring a gift
over to make my house a little bit more beautiful.
So something like a photo frame or...
Or maybe a plant or sometimes even like maybe a basket of pastries or something.
I've never gotten one of those because I don't have a home.
Oh.
Where do you live?
On the street?
Well, I don't have my own home so I have never gotten one of those.
Okay, so we're ready now to listen to our dialogue.
So we've got two housewives who are gossiping about what's going on in the neighborhood
and let's listen to what happens.
Oh, I don't know if you've heard, but someone moved into that old house down the road.
I met the owner of the house yesterday as he was moving in.
His name is Armand.
What's he like?
You have to fill me in.
Actually, he's a bit strange.
I've just got a bad feeling about him.
Yesterday I brought over a housewarming gift, but Armand started acting really weird and
then he practically kicked me out.
I tried to sort of peek into his house, but everything was so dark inside that I couldn't
really get a good look.
The whole thing really creeped me out.
Well, you'll never guess what I saw this morning.
A delivery truck pulled into his driveway and it dropped off a long rectangular box.
It almost looked like a coffin.
You see?
Why would he?
Hello, ladies.
Armand!
Oh, you scared the heck out of me.
This is my friend Doris.
Pleasure to meet you.
If you're not doing anything tonight, I'd like to have you both for dinner.
I mean, I'd like to have you both over for dinner.
Ooh, that guy seems kind of weird.
You can hear his voice is like a weird guy, right?
All right, let's take a look at our language takeaway and look at some of these great words.
So, our language takeaway focuses on several words from the dialogue that we feel are really
important for you to know.
Exactly, and we have four of them for you today.
Why don't we look at the first one?
Okay, so the first word is a bad feeling.
Bad feeling.
A bad feeling.
So, we've got a few examples that will help you to understand how this phrase works.
I don't like Kelly's new boyfriend.
I've got a bad feeling about him.
It's so dark.
We shouldn't be out here.
I've got a bad feeling about this.
I've got a bad feeling about this trip.
I feel like something's going to happen.
Maybe we shouldn't go.
Okay, so basically you think something bad is going to happen.
Yeah, you have a sort of uncomfortable feeling.
Okay, that makes sense.
You have a bad feeling about something.
Okay, let's look at our second word now.
Kicked me out.
So when someone kicks you out, it's they force you to leave.
You don't want to leave, but they force you to.
Marco, have you ever kicked someone out of your class?
Yes, I have.
Yeah, if you misbehave in my class, you're kicked out.
So you're pretty strict, huh?
Sometimes I am.
So maybe you've kicked your husband out of bed.
I might have done that once or twice before.
We'll have to ask him.
I'm sure he has.
All right, so that's what it means.
You force someone to leave the house, leave the class, leave the bed.
So kicked out of class, kicked out of the house, kicked out of bed.
Let's look at our third word now.
Creeped me out.
Now this is a really common phrase.
I like this phrase a lot, and we've got some examples for you to listen to to help you
understand this word a little bit better.
Shh.
Did you hear that?
Oh, I think I saw something.
Stop it.
You're really creeping me out.
This place really creeps me out.
All right, well, I have a confession to make.
I'm kind of creeped out by clowns.
You are?
They're just creepy.
They scare me.
What is it about clowns that scare you so much?
They're just white faces and weird paint.
It's just creepy.
And the way they laugh.
Maybe you had a bad experience with clowns as a child.
Probably.
I watched a scary movie about clowns or something.
So, creeped me out basically means made me feel uncomfortable.
It scares you.
Well, speaking of being scared, we have our final word for language takeaway, and it is
scared the heck out of me.
You scared the heck out of me.
Scared the heck out of me.
You got really scared.
Yeah, I think this is a quite common way of saying, you really, really scared me.
We're ready to listen to our dialogue again.
Now, try and see if you can catch all these phrases that we just talked about.
Well, yesterday I brought over a housewarming gift, but Armand started acting really weird,
and then he practically kicked me out.
You see, why would he—
Ah, Armand.
This is my friend, Doris.
A pleasure to meet you.
If you are not doing anything tonight, I would like to have you both for dinner.
I mean, I would like to have you both over for dinner.
You know, one of the things I really like about this dialogue is there's a lot of great
phrases that will help you to gossip.
That's a good observation.
So I think it's time for Fluency Builder.
In Fluency Builder, we take a simple phrase or a simple word you already know and show
you how to express the same idea a little bit more naturally.
So let's take a look at our first item for Fluency Builder.
So when you gossip with somebody, you often tell them news or information that they don't
know already.
And you might start by saying, did you know that?
Or you can say, did you hear?
Yeah, both of those phrases are perfectly fine, but if you want to sound a little bit
more native-like when you're gossiping, you might try out this phrase from the dialogue.
I don't know if you've heard.
Yeah, that's a really good phrase.
You're saying exactly the same thing, but in a really natural way.
It's a great one for gossiping.
So Marco, I don't know if you've heard, but ChinesePod is up to some pretty crazy things.
See, that's exactly how you would use that phrase.
So now let's take a look at our second item.
Now when you're gossiping, you want information.
So you might say, oh, tell me about it.
Or something like, give me the details.
Yeah, and again, both of these examples are perfectly fine, but when you're gossiping,
you might want to try something like this.
Fill me in, yeah, that's what I would say.
Fill me in, you know, give me the details.
Fill me in.
Fill me in on today's gossip.
Okay, so let's take a look at our third item.
Now if you have some juicy gossipy news and you want to start up a conversation, you might
use this phrase here.
That's a really good phrase.
You can change it a little bit.
You can say, you'll never guess who I saw.
Or you'll never guess what I heard.
Very excellent gossip phrases.
We're teaching you how to gossip because that's real English.
People really do it, so you've got to know the language for it.
All right, so enough of our gossip.
I think it's time for us to listen to the dialogue one last time.
A delivery truck pulled into his driveway, and it dropped off a long rectangular box.
Okay, Markle, I have a true story for you.
Is it kind of like a creepy story?
It is a creepy story indeed.
Is it a true story?
No, it's really true.
So, when I was young, I used to live in the country.
And you know, in the country, all of the neighbors know each other.
It's a small community, so everyone knows what's happening all the time.
And there was some gossip going on in our community about a guy who lived at the end
of the road.
And he was the owner of a car wrecking yard.
So a place where you take old broken down cars and take the parts apart to sell.
And anyway, a scrap yard.
Yeah, a scrap yard.
Okay, so, you know, he had a wife and a couple of kids.
And suddenly his wife disappeared.
And no one knew what happened or anything.
And so several years pass and suddenly the police start coming in and start investigating
this guy and start digging up all of the land around his property.
And I guess, I don't know what they're doing, but I think they were looking for the wife's
body.
And did they find it?
I moved away.
Oh, such a great story, but we don't know how it ends.
Well, we can leave it up to the imagination of our listeners.
Maybe they were looking for an old car.
An old car buried in the ground.
I don't think so.
That's a true story.
Real English, real stories.
You heard it first here on EnglishPod.
So, we want to hear your comments and suggestions about this topic.
I bet a lot of our listeners also have creepy stories, maybe ghost stories, maybe, I don't
know, different types of weird stories.
So, you guys should definitely log on to EnglishPod and share them with us.
Go to EnglishPod.com and in the comment section of the website, tell us your creepy stories.
And we're going to pick out the best story as the story of the week.
We'll announce it in our This Just In podcast.
So, we want to hear all your juicy stories and gossip maybe as well.
Well, it's time for us to go.
So, be sure to listen to us next time.
But until then, it's...
Bye-bye.
Hello everyone and welcome back to EnglishPod. My name is Marco.
I'm Erika.
And today we have a great intermediate lesson for you.
That's right. We've got some excellent real English for you all about cleaning the house.
Cleaning the house. That's a real life situation, so we're going to give you real English.
Exactly. So in today's lesson, we're going to look at language about cleaning the house.
We're also going to learn a few phrases that you can use if you want to ask someone for
help and maybe if you're a little bit lazy like me, a phrase or two to avoid doing work.
Okay, well let's get started then with our vocabulary preview.
All right, great. We have two great words for you today. Erika, why don't you tell us
the first one?
The first word is such a mess.
Such a mess.
So when something is a mess.
It's dirty.
Yeah, or things are everywhere.
Disorganized.
Yeah, so you have your clothes on the floor and your shoes on...
Okay, so that sounds a lot like my desk at work.
Your shoes on your desk. Yeah, I've seen that. I've been wanting to ask you about that.
Okay, such a mess. Really, really dirty.
Okay, now let's take a look at our second word, chores.
Chores.
Chores is a really common word for...
Things you have to do around the house.
Like for example, laundry.
Or making the bed.
Or when you have to take out the garbage.
Those are all examples of chores.
Chores, yeah. I guess everyone can remember when they were kids, they had chores to do.
Yeah, when I was a kid, it was my chore to chop wood.
Chop wood?
That's a great chore. Playing with an axe.
Maybe if you're a boy, but for a girl, it was not so great.
That's why you're so strong and fit.
Alright, so let's listen to our dialogue for the first time. It's going to be kind of fast.
But don't worry if you miss something, because we'll explain all of the important language
afterwards.
Honey, the house is such a mess. I need you to help me tidy up a bit. My boss and her
husband are coming over for dinner and the house needs to be spotless.
I'm in the middle of something right now. I'll be there in a second.
This can't wait. I need your help now.
Alright, alright. I'm coming.
Okay, here's a list of chores we need to get done. I'll do the dishes and get all the groceries
for tonight. You can sweep and mop the floors. Oh, and the furniture needs to be dusted.
You know what? I have to pick something up in the mall. So why don't you clean the floors
and I'll go to the supermarket and get all the groceries.
Sure, that's fine. Here's the list of all the things you need to get. Don't forget anything.
And can you pick up a bottle of wine on your way home?
Hey honey, I'm back.
Wow, the house looks really good.
Great. Can you set the table?
Just a sec. I'm just going to vacuum this rug real fast.
Wait, don't turn it on.
Oh my god, Marco, what happened there?
An explosion.
We love a good explosion here at English Flash.
We're going to give you as many explosions as possible.
So let's take a look at our language takeaway.
So language takeaway is the part of our lesson where we teach you what we think are some
really important words that are found in the dialogue.
Exactly. And we have three really important words in our dialogue today. So let's start
with the first one.
Tidy up.
So to tidy up means to...
Put things in their correct spot.
Right. So put the shoes on the floor.
Get those shoes off my desk.
Exactly. So tidy up, organize things a little bit.
Yeah. Put things away.
Okay. Let's take a look at our second word now. Spotless.
Spotless.
So when you want something to be spotless...
You want it to be really clean.
Really clean, not a spot of dirt on it.
Like your desk.
Exactly. My desk is spotless.
My desk is not spotless.
All right. Great word. Now let's take a look at our last word for language takeaway. Mall.
Mall.
M-A-L-L, mall.
Mall. Yeah. It's a strange sounding word.
It is a little bit funny sounding, but it basically means a large building with many
shops inside, many different stores inside.
Right. Now in British English, you would say shopping center.
Yeah. I think that's a little bit more common, but in American English, we say mall.
Mall. Great. So now it's time in our show to look at putting it together.
Okay. So in putting it together, we take a word from the dialogue and we show you how
to use this word in real English. So we give you a couple of examples of how this particular
word can be used.
Exactly. So the word that we have for today is groceries.
Groceries.
Erica, why don't you tell us what groceries are all about?
So groceries are all of the food items that you need to buy at the supermarket. So like
your bread and milk and meat and...
Vegetables.
Exactly. Those are all groceries.
Okay. So let's listen to some examples on how we use this phrase.
There's no milk. Can you go to the grocery store?
Here's the grocery list. I need all of these things so that I can cook dinner tonight.
Don't forget anything.
I hate grocery shopping. I can never find what I'm looking for.
Okay. Great examples. We heard some really interesting combinations, right?
Yeah. We heard grocery store.
Which is where you buy your groceries.
Exactly. Grocery shopping.
Buying all your groceries.
And grocery list.
Where you have all the items that you need to buy.
A list of everything you need to buy.
You know, grocery store. I think this is quite a common word in Canada.
Probably North America.
Yeah. Do you say grocery store in America?
Well, if it's a small one.
Like a small store.
In Canada, I say grocery store for even like a supermarket.
I would say supermarket for a large one and grocery store for a little corner shop.
All of these little differences in American Canadian English.
Okay. I think it's time for us to listen to our dialogue another time. This time it'll
be a little bit slower.
All right. All right. I'm coming.
Okay. Here's a list of chores we need to get done. I'll do the dishes and get all the groceries
You know what? I have to pick something up at the mall. So why don't you clean the floors
Sure. That's fine. Here's the list of all the things you need to get. Don't forget anything.
Hey, honey, I'm back. Wow. The house looks really good.
Just a sec. I'm just gonna vacuum this rug real fast.
Okay. Great stuff. Love hearing that explosion. That vacuum just is a bomb.
Yeah. In this dialogue, there was some really interesting language that you can use if you
don't want to do any chores in the house.
Exactly. So it's time now for Fluency Builder.
You know, Fluency Builder is a part of our show that we use to take a common phrase or
a word that you already know and show you how to express that idea more fluently and
more naturally.
Exactly. So let's take a look at our first idea that we want to explain.
Let's say you're watching TV like the woman in this dialogue and your husband wants you
to help him do the chores and you say, no, I'm busy.
Right. Or I'm doing something.
Those are two great expressions, but we heard something a little bit different in the dialogue.
I'm in the middle of something right now.
Yeah, that phrase is great. It means she's busy. She's doing something.
Yeah. I'm in the middle of something.
And so, Marco, you can tell us about our next phrase.
Okay. Well, now suppose that you want to say, you'll be there soon.
You might say, I'll be there soon or...
I'm coming.
But in our dialogue, we heard something a little bit different. Let's listen.
I'll be there in a second.
So this is a more natural way of saying, I'll be there very soon.
Yeah. You know what? I think I use this phrase almost every day. I'll be there in a second.
Yeah. Yeah. It's really common.
Yeah. It means I'll be there really fast.
Okay. So our final item today in Fluency Builder is a great phrase that helps you say the idea
of, could you or would you?
Right. Or can you?
Yeah. So, can you sweep the floor? Could you sweep the floor?
But in the dialogue, we heard something that's a little bit different.
Why don't you clean the floors and I'll go to the supermarket?
Great. So this is more natural and it's giving a suggestion.
Yeah. It's sort of a polite way of asking someone to clean the floors.
Right. It's a really good and polite way of saying it. Yeah. I would agree on that.
This was Fluency Builder. Now we are ready to listen to our dialogue again at its normal
And this time you'll understand a lot better.
OK. Here's a list of chores we need to get done. I'll do the dishes and get all the groceries
And can you pick up a bottle of wine on your way home? Hey, honey, I'm back. Wow. The house
looks really good. Great. Can you set the table? Just a sec. I'm just going to vacuum
this rug real fast. Wait, don't turn it on. Has this ever happened to you? Has your vacuum
cleaner exploded in your house? Well, not a big explosion like this one. Not so dramatically.
Not so dramatically. But I've had this happen to me before. Yeah. And dust everywhere. And
it's just it's a mess. You don't want to have. You know, this word vacuum is really a very
American word. Yeah. Vacuum. Vacuum the rug. Vacuum the carpet. Yeah. Vacuum cleaner. In
the UK, what do they say? Hoover. Hoover. Hoover. Hoover the rug. Hoover the rug. Which
is interesting because it's actually a brand. Yeah. So I guess it's kind of like American
English. You say, pass me a Kleenex. Oh, that's true. That would be like a tissue. Yeah. So
I guess they say Hoover the rug or Hoover the house. Yeah. Wow. You know, I really love
these small differences in meaning that we have between American English and British
English. Yeah, it's fun. Okay. Well, another interesting thing about this is that the man
was doing the housework. I know. He's a house husband. Yeah. So he's the one doing all the
chores in the house. Yeah, that's well, that's the new trend now. Now it's more popular for
men to stay home and take care of the babies and clean the house. Yeah. Like when I was
growing up, my dad would take out the garbage and that was it. My mom had to do everything
else. But now I think it's becoming a lot more common in especially in North America
for the household chores to be divided between the man and the wife equally. Yeah, I think
it's fair. Me too. Yeah. You'd make a good husband, Marco. That's what they say, but
they haven't married me yet. Okay. All right. Well, we're out of time, folks. Be sure to
log on to our community website and you can leave all your comments and maybe other house
husbands out there can give us their feedback on what they think about this. Yeah. So check
us out at EnglishPod.com and thanks for listening today, everyone. Until next time, this is
Marco and Erika saying, bye. Goodbye.
Hello, everyone, and welcome to EnglishPod.
My name's Erica.
And I'm Marco.
So, Marco, how are you doing today?
I'm great.
I'm really happy to be back, ready to deliver another great podcast for all our listeners.
And we've got an intermediate lesson today about spending money.
Yeah, specifically spending money in a company.
We're going to be listening to a business meeting as a company describes how they're
spending money.
And they're actually looking at their profit and loss statement.
So that's kind of interesting.
Well, Marco, can you tell us a little bit about a profit and loss statement?
Yeah, sure.
Well, all companies come out with a profit and loss statement every year or every three
months.
And it's basically a document that shows all the money that the company is spending and
all the money that the company is earning.
So it's a document that outlines how much money the company makes and how much it spends.
So in the end, basically, it'll tell you we're making money or we're losing money.
So we're going to be listening to some people discuss a profit and loss statement in just
a moment.
But before we do that, it's time for vocabulary preview.
So today on our vocabulary preview, we have two words for you.
So let's take a look at the first one.
Expenses.
So expenses are things that you have to spend money on regularly.
So for example, in a company, regular company expenses are salaries or office supplies or
the phone bills, internet bills.
Maybe in a household or a family, your expenses might be your food, perhaps your transportation
or your rent or your heating bill.
So these are all things you spend money on regularly.
They're expenses.
Let's take a look at our second word.
Through the roof.
So when something is through the roof, it's...
Really really really really high.
Really high.
So for example, we can talk about gas prices are through the roof lately.
Yeah, that's totally true.
Gas prices have gone really high in the past couple of months.
So when we talk about through the roof, it means that the number is really high.
We typically use this word with numbers.
It also gives you the idea that the number has risen really quickly.
So through the roof.
All right, Marco, do you think it's time for the dialogue?
Yep, let's listen to the dialogue.
As always, the first dialogue is going to be a little bit fast, so it might be a little
bit difficult, but...
Don't worry if you don't understand everything, because we will explain all of the key language
in a minute.
Okay, so now the last point on our agenda.
Jill, let's go over the profit and loss statement.
Well, the main issue here, as you can see, is that our expenses are through the roof.
Let's see.
These numbers are off the charts.
What's going on here?
Well, sir, the company expenditures on entertainment and travel are out of control.
Look at these bills, for example.
Just this month, we've paid over $20,000 for hotel charges.
Oh, okay.
Thank you.
I'll look into it.
The list goes on and on.
Here, this is a bill for $5,000 for spa treatment.
That will be all.
I'll take care of it.
Look at this one, sir.
$5,000 were expensed in one night at a place called Wild Things?
Okay, I get it.
Thank you for your very thorough analysis.
Okay, so this accountant, she's pretty thorough, hey?
She's really persistent about her job, and the manager apparently is a little bit embarrassed.
I wonder why that could be.
Well, we'll talk about that in a little while.
Why don't we take a look at our language takeaway for today?
In today's language takeaway, we're going to look at three words, and the first word
is expenditures.
Expenditures.
So expenditures sounds pretty close to expenses, right?
It's pretty similar, but it has a little bit of a difference.
So why don't we listen to some examples and see if we can understand?
If elected president, I will increase expenditures on health and education by 12%.
We really need to control our travel expenditures.
From now on, all managers will fly economy class.
Because of the rise in oil prices, expenditures on food are higher than they have ever been.
So expenditures is the total amount of money that you're spending on something.
That's the total amount of money versus expenses is the things that you spend money on.
Okay, that's really clear.
Our next word is out of control.
Out of control.
So when something is out of control, it's crazy.
You can't control it.
You can't stop it.
Now, let's take a look at our last word for today.
Go over.
So go over is a pretty simple word.
Why don't we listen to some examples so we can understand go over?
I need to go over this report one last time to make sure there are no mistakes.
Can you help me go over my presentation?
I want to make sure it's perfect.
Let's go over these numbers one more time and make sure there are no mistakes.
Yeah, this is a really common word and it basically means look at carefully.
Yeah, or review.
In English, we often find simple little words, they fit together really well.
And you think, oh, they're so easy, like the word go over, so easy.
But it's the way that they interact with each other that makes them...
Or it makes you sound much better.
So go over, in this case, we might say, let's go over the lesson.
Let's go over the lesson.
Yeah, that sounds great.
Yeah, and that's a more natural way of saying something like that.
Okay, so we've taken a look at our language takeaways for today.
I think it's time to listen to the dialogue one more time.
And this time, the dialogue will be slower so we can understand and listen to all the
words we just talked about.
Well, um, sir, the company expenditures on entertainment and travel are out of control.
Okay, thank you.
Here, this is a bill for $5,000 for spa treatments.
Okay, so I got it.
Yeah, it's clear now.
Yeah, and you know, I heard a lot of really great phrases in this dialogue that I'd like
to look at now in Fluency Builder.
So today on Fluency Builder, we have three words for you.
Let's start by looking at the first one, off the charts.
Off the charts.
So this word is very similar to through the roof.
It also means really high.
So let's listen to some examples of how we can use off the charts in a different situation.
Oil prices have gone up and our costs are off the charts.
Excellent job, Susan.
Your sales are off the charts this year.
Our losses are off the charts.
That's it.
No losses for anyone.
So Marco, do you think I can change off the charts for through the roof in these examples?
Yeah, you can.
You can use off the charts or through the roof.
Both of them mean the same thing.
So two ways of saying really, really, really high.
But they're very commonly used in a business setting.
So this next word is a phrase that you can use if you want to tell somebody that you'll
check something or you'll investigate something.
And we heard it in our dialogue.
So let's listen to the clip.
So look into that.
That means I'll check something.
Yeah, I'll see what's happening.
Does it mean you're going to take action?
No, it doesn't.
So I think we've got another word that does mean you're going to take action.
So this word means that you're going to do something about it.
I will take responsibility.
So I will do something about it.
I will investigate and I'll do it.
Again, two great phrases.
So now let's listen to the dialogue a third time.
It's going to be at its normal speed, but now you have all the tools you need to understand
it a lot better.
So now the last point on our agenda.
$8,000 were expensed in one night at a place called Wild Things.
I get it.
I'll do a very thorough analysis.
Marco, I guess one of the benefits of being an executive in a company, especially a large
company, is you get a lot of amazing benefits.
When you are a manager or a CEO of one of these big companies, you get a lot of great
things like, I don't know, a private jet maybe.
Well, that's nice.
Or the company often pays for your house.
Or for your car, they'll give you a company car.
They'll pay for your kids' or your children's tuition for high school.
So there are school fees.
Also, I've heard about entertainment bonuses.
So you can go out to a restaurant, get the receipt, and claim the expenses at work.
Those are some great benefits, right?
So Marco, I'm curious to know what our listeners' expenses are.
We definitely want to know what crazy expenses you have.
For example?
Well, let's see.
My spending on Coke Zero has gone through the roof since we started this podcast.
You spend a lot of money on Coke Zeros every week, right?
I probably have about, I don't know, 10 a week.
Well, for example, I spend a lot on DVDs each week.
I usually buy two or three movies.
That is off the charts.
That is off the charts for DVD spending.
So we want to know what you spend your money on.
Be sure to go into our community website and tell us what you spend money on.
You can find us at EnglishPod.com.
And Marco and I are always there to respond to your questions and comments.
So we'll see you there.
And until then, it's goodbye.
Hello, English learners, and welcome to another great podcast with EnglishPod.
And today we have another really great lesson for you, elementary lesson.
That's right, and it's another lesson about money.
We have no money here at EnglishPod.
We are in debt here.
In debt.
So, what does that mean?
Why don't you tell us?
If I owe you money, I'm in debt.
In fact, I think I am in debt to you.
You owe me $2.50 for a Coke Zero today.
That's true.
Okay, so let's get started.
Let's take a look at our vocabulary preview.
We have two words today in our vocabulary preview, and the first one is recession.
Recession.
So, recession.
Everyone's talking about it right now, and what does it mean?
That's your job.
I really don't know.
Why don't you tell me, Erica, because this isn't my topic for today.
Recession is a period of time when the economy of a country is doing badly.
In a recession, the country is making less money.
Maybe we can give a few examples of things that happen in a recession to show the meaning
of this a little bit better.
So, for example, in a recession, many people lose their jobs.
Because companies might close or go bankrupt.
And also, people start spending less money.
And the stock prices of companies fall.
Pretty dramatic.
Yeah, they fall a lot, hey?
That's what's going on now in the United States.
Very true.
So, let's take a look at our second word, and it has to do with recession.
It's broke.
Broke.
I'm broke.
It means that you have no money.
You're broke.
So, these are our two words for vocabulary preview today, and you're going to hear them
in the dialogue.
This dialogue is about a man who is in debt.
He's broke.
Let's find out what happens.
I'm here to see Mr. Corleone.
Right this way, sir.
Charlie, what can I do for you?
Mr. Corleone, I'm really sorry to trouble you, but I need your help.
Anything for you, Charlie.
Your father was like a brother to me.
Well, sir, you see, this recession has hit me pretty hard.
I lost my job, and I'm in a lot of debt.
I see.
Yeah, you know, I've got credit card bills, car payments, I've got to pay my mortgage,
and on top of all that, I have to pay my son's college tuition.
So you're asking for a loan.
Well, I just thought maybe you could help me out.
At a time like this?
I'm broke too, you know.
You're not the only one who's been hit by the recession.
I lost half my money in the stock market crash.
Go on.
Get out of here.
Okay, so that was a bit unexpected.
Yeah, that was certainly strange.
He didn't go to the bank to ask for money, did he?
No, he went to the mob, and the mob is broke.
Oh no, you know it's a bad recession when even the mob runs out of money.
All right, so why don't we start by looking at our language takeaway.
All right, so for today's language takeaway, we have four words from the dialogue which
we think are really important.
Yes, so why don't we start with the first one?
Loan.
So, Erika, tell us about a loan.
What is a loan?
Okay, when you borrow money, you get a loan.
A loan, yes.
Not to be confused with alone, like by myself.
No, so this is L-O-A-N.
Let's take a look at our second word, mortgage.
Mortgage.
Now, this is very common.
I'm sure many of you have mortgages.
What is a mortgage?
A mortgage is a type of a loan.
Basically, it's a loan that helps you to buy a house.
A house or a property.
Yeah, so this is a funny word.
I mean, there's this strange mortgage with a T.
Yeah, it has a T in it, but you don't pronounce it.
You say mortgage.
So not mortgage.
Not mortgage.
Mortgage, yeah.
I had trouble spelling that one for this lesson, so I learned it well now.
Let's move to our third word today.
Hit me pretty hard.
I think we have some examples that will help us understand this phrase.
My divorce hit me pretty hard.
I'm so depressed.
This cold has hit me pretty hard.
I've been in bed for a week.
The news of Fluffy's death hit me pretty hard.
I've been crying for days.
Okay, so that's a lot clearer.
Why don't we take a look at our last word for language takeaway?
Tuition.
So this is the money you have to pay to your school so that you can study there.
Usually, it's in college, right, or university.
Yeah, but sometimes in some countries, you have to pay tuition for public school.
So it's time to listen to our dialogue again, and it's going to be slower so we can listen
to all the words that we just talked about.
You know, I've got credit card bills, car payments, I've got to pay my mortgage, and
on top of all that, I have to pay my son's college tuition.
You're not the only one who has been hit by the recession.
Go on, get out of here.
Okay, so I think a lot of the key language we just talked about is a lot more clear now.
But you know, I also noticed some really interesting phrases in this dialogue.
Yes, I did too.
So let's start with Fluency Builder.
Fluency Builder is a tool that we use to help you sound more native.
Right, so you can sound more natural when you're speaking.
So we take a really common phrase, and we show you some great natural ways of expressing
that same idea.
And today we have three of these examples.
So this phrase we use when we want to ask somebody, can I help you?
Yeah, that sounds really, really polite and really natural.
Right, so instead of saying, can I help you?
Or, I don't know, what do you need?
We can just say, what can I do for you?
So let's move to our second phrase.
This phrase we use when we need something, when we want to say, I'm sorry to bother you.
Or, I'm sorry to interrupt.
Okay, let's listen.
I'm really sorry to trouble you.
I'm sorry to trouble you.
This phrase might be a little bit more difficult to understand how it's used, but we've got
some examples.
Yes, so let's listen.
Can I trouble you for a moment?
I just need you to sign this form for me.
I'm sorry to trouble you, but may I go home early today?
Can I trouble you for a pen?
Mine is not working anymore.
Okay, so now let's take a look at our last phrase for fluency builder.
On top of all that.
This is a really useful phrase.
Marco, how would you use it?
Well, for example, today I lost my job.
My car got stolen.
And on top of all that, my girlfriend broke up with me.
That was a terrible day.
It was, but don't worry.
You can use this phrase also in a positive way.
You could say, so today was a really great day.
It was my birthday and all my friends came to visit me and on top of all that, I got
a million presents.
That is a great day.
So you can use on top of all that in this way.
Just like and also.
And also, yeah.
So on top of all that.
So we are ready to listen to our dialogue a third time.
We can hear all the words that we just talked about and all the phrases and you'll definitely
be able to understand a lot better now.
This way, sir.
I lost my job and I'm in a lot of debt.
Yeah, you know, I've got credit card bills, car payments.
I've got to pay my mortgage.
And on top of all that, I have to pay my son's college tuition.
I'm out of here.
Today's dialogue was all about being in debt, right?
And, and different people have different attitudes or different viewpoints on being in debt.
Yes, that's true.
For example, in North America and in Canada, it's a really common thing.
Yeah, it's actually almost good to be in debt.
It's more than good.
It's necessary to be in debt.
Unless you have a history of being in debt and regularly paying off your debts, you can't
actually borrow money.
You can't get a mortgage.
You can't get a car loan so you can buy a new car.
That's called a credit history.
So you must have a good credit history in order to be able to, like you say, buy a car
or buy a house.
And you know, the funny thing is, when I was in university, maybe I was 18 years old, the
first thing that happened at university was, you know, banks came to our university and
started offering you credit cards.
So you can get a credit card when you're 18, no problem.
And not only do they offer you credit cards, they give you like free gifts if you sign
up for a credit card.
So they really want you to have a credit card.
Of course, they want you to spend more money.
That's the trick.
It's totally different in Europe, for example.
I used to live in Switzerland and there, they're really careful with debt.
Like it's a bad thing to be in debt.
I mean, it's bad to be in debt.
For example, if I want to have a credit card in Switzerland and let's say I want to have
a limit of 500 francs that I can spend every month.
I need to put in my bank account 700 francs before I can even spend that credit card money.
So it's totally opposite from North America.
I mean, in North America, it's crazy the way that people are in debt and it's showing now
with the recession, right?
So everyone, be sure to handle your money carefully.
Don't be in debt unless you really, really have to.
Good financial advice from EnglishPod.
EnglishPod financial advising service.
Okay, everyone.
Thanks for listening.
Now, remember, if you have any questions or comments, please visit our website at EnglishPod.com.
Erika and I are always there to answer all the questions and we really like to receive
comments and suggestions from all our users.
So be sure to go and leave us your comments.
Okay, Marco.
It's been fun.
Yes, it has.
But sadly, we have to go now.
So until next time, it's...
Hello everyone and welcome back to another great lesson with EnglishPod.
Erika, today we have a great intermediate lesson.
We've got a lesson about love.
About love.
And about apologizing.
Love and apologizing.
They go together.
Yes, they do.
Especially if you have a girlfriend or boyfriend, right?
Okay, so why don't we start by looking at our vocabulary preview.
In today's vocabulary preview, we will learn two important words from our dialogue.
What's the first word?
Knock over.
So that's a really simple one.
When you knock something over, you make it fall down.
Make it fall down.
So speaking of knocking things over, this morning I knocked over my coffee cup all over
my desk.
Yeah, I saw that.
You almost ruined our lesson plan for today.
Yes, I did.
It was all over the place.
Explode.
So, when something explodes, this is what happens.
All right, that's pretty clear.
That's more than clear, I think.
So now we've looked at our two vocabulary preview words for this dialogue and we are
ready to listen to it for the first time.
Watch out!
Hey, watch where you're going.
Oh no, I'm so sorry.
Are you all right?
Oh, I don't know.
I feel terrible.
I really didn't mean to knock you over.
My tire just exploded and I lost control of my bike.
Really it was an accident.
Please accept my apologies.
Just let me try to stand up.
Oh, wait a second, you seem really familiar.
I think I know you from somewhere.
I think we've met somewhere before.
We met at Aaron's place last weekend.
What a coincidence.
But anyway, I'm glad to see you're not badly hurt and I should probably get going.
I've got a nine o'clock meeting.
But here's my number.
Call me and we'll exchange insurance information.
Ouch, my ankle.
I think it's broken.
You can't just leave me like this.
Are you calling an ambulance?
Nope, I'm canceling my appointment so that I can stay here with you.
I love happy endings.
Such a romantic dialogue.
Yeah, this guy, oh my God, he is amazing.
I would love to meet a guy like that.
Like that, like crashing into you?
Maybe not like that.
Okay, well I think it's time to look at some of the language in this dialogue.
Let's start with our language takeaway.
Today we have three important words from our dialogue that we will learn for our language
takeaway.
The first word is familiar.
Familiar.
This one, I think, is a little bit hard to explain.
Yeah, so let's listen to some examples on how we use familiar.
Norman Clark.
That name sounds familiar.
Where have I heard it before?
Do you know where we are?
I have no idea.
Nothing looks familiar.
I think we're lost.
You look really familiar.
Did we go to high school together?
So when something's familiar, you think you know it, but you're not exactly sure.
Exactly, familiar.
Okay, our next word is place.
Place.
Aaron's place.
So when we refer to place, we refer to house.
Right, so I can say, hey Marco, come over to my place for dinner tonight.
Exactly, or I could say, we're having a party at my place tonight at eight.
You might ask someone, how's your new place?
How's your new apartment?
Exactly, that's a good one.
So place, it's a house.
Our final word today is coincidence.
Coincidence.
So, again, we have some great examples for you to understand how we use coincidence.
I'm going to New York this weekend.
What a coincidence, I am too.
By coincidence, everyone in the room was named Alex.
We met by pure coincidence.
One day we ran into each other on our bikes and we've been together ever since.
A coincidence is something that happens by chance, right?
Right, you didn't plan it, it just happened.
Yeah, these funny little things happen all the time.
I love it when these coincidences happen.
Yeah, they're great.
So Erica, why don't you tell us about a coincidence that's happened to you?
Well, the other night I was having dinner in a restaurant and I looked up and I saw
my old professor from university.
It was such a coincidence because here we are in Shanghai and I see my professor from
Canada having dinner at the table next to me.
It was such a coincidence.
That is a coincidence.
Or has it ever happened to you that you're thinking of someone and that person calls
you?
That happens all the time.
That's a coincidence.
Okay, so now that we have learned these three language takeaway words, we can listen to
our dialogue a second time but this time it's going to be slower.
I didn't mean to knock you over.
Really, it was an accident.
Oh, wait a second.
You seem really familiar.
Yeah, I think we have met somewhere before.
But anyway, I'm glad to see that you're not badly hurt and I should probably get going.
I have a nine o'clock meeting.
No, I'm canceling my appointment so that I can stay here with you.
Well, that was much clearer, wasn't it?
Yes, that was clear.
And this brings us to Fluency Builder.
In today's Fluency Builder, we're going to show you different ways of apologizing.
It's so important to be able to apologize well and fluently.
And you also want to say something different from I'm sorry.
So that's what we're going to show you today.
We heard some great expressions for I'm sorry in the dialogue.
Let's listen now.
I'm so sorry.
Yeah, I feel terrible.
I say this one all the time.
Yeah, it's a great way of saying I'm sorry.
Now, also, if you want to say I'm sorry, you also want to tell the person that you made
a mistake, right?
And we did hear some wonderful expressions for I made a mistake in this dialogue.
It was an accident.
Well, I didn't mean to knock my coffee cup over this morning.
It was.
Not on purpose, right?
Or so you think.
So all of these phrases are really useful and great for apologizing and telling someone
you made a mistake.
Well, it's time for us to listen to our dialogue a third time.
This time it will be at its normal speed and I think you'll be able to understand a little
bit better.
Whoa!
Are you alright?
Oh, I'm fine.
I'm fine.
Ugh, I don't know.
Why do birds suddenly appear?
But anyway, I'm glad to see you're not badly hurt, and I should probably get going.
Ouch!
My ankle!
You can't just leave me like this!
Nope.
I'm canceling my appointment so that I can stay here with you.
Great dialogue and great music, right?
Awful music.
Who picked that, Marco?
Of course, me.
I'm a romantic type.
I love romantic music.
Well, speaking of a romantic type, do you believe in love at first sight?
I kind of do.
I'd like to believe it.
Yeah, well...
That surprises me.
Well, I think the first time that you see someone, it impresses you some way, and you
feel attracted to that person.
What is the first feeling that you get that makes you want to talk to that person or get
to know that person?
I am the exact opposite.
When I see somebody for the first time, my first impression is, oh, it's wrong.
So if I see someone and I like them at the beginning, in three weeks I'll hate them.
And if I see someone and I don't like them when I first meet them, I'll be their best
friend.
So love at first sight doesn't work for me.
I'm sure that our listeners have some stories that love at first sight.
Maybe they've met their wives or their boyfriends in this way.
I'd like to hear about it.
Me too.
And if anybody knows the name of the songs we used, also be sure to post it on the discussion
board.
Our challenge for this week.
Our challenge for this lesson.
So that's all for today, everyone, but be sure to go to our website at EnglishPod.com
and as we said, leave all your comments, your stories, and see if you know the name of the
songs.
Okay, well, thanks for listening, everyone, and until next time, goodbye.
My name's Erica and I'm here with Marco.
Marco, hurry up!
I'm coming!
Hurry up, Marco, we've got a lesson.
Okay, I'm here, I'm here.
What did I miss?
The lesson.
All right, sorry about that.
We have a great lesson for you today.
We have an elementary lesson.
That's right, an elementary lesson about being in a rush and about giving directions when
you're in a car.
We're going to listen to two friends who are getting in a car and they're getting ready
to go somewhere and they're in a big hurry.
So let's hurry up and listen to the dialogue.
Hurry up, get in.
All right, man, let's go.
Okay, make a left here.
No wait, I meant make a right.
Come on, speed up.
Geez, what's the rush?
Don't worry about it, just drive.
Oh no, the light is about to change.
Step on it.
Are you nuts?
I'm not going to run a red light.
Whatever, just turn right here.
The freeway will be packed at this hour.
Let's take a side street.
Go on, get out of our way.
Move, move.
What's your problem?
Geez, having a fit is not going to help.
Here, I know a shortcut.
Just go down here and we'll cut through Ashburn Heights.
Let's go, let's go.
Watch out for that lady.
I'm going as fast as I can.
Yes, we made it, 5.58 just before the library closes.
You're such a geek.
So they were in a hurry and it was all just to get to the library.
Well maybe he was late returning a book or something.
That's a bit dramatic just for returning a book.
All right, why don't we look at our language takeaway for today.
Okay, on today's language takeaway we have five words for you today.
Five really important and useful words that we found in our dialogue.
So what does it mean when I tell you to step on it?
Drive faster.
Drive faster, right?
You might also say speed up.
Speed up, yes.
Speed up.
That's exactly it.
Our second word, speed up.
Also means go faster.
Go faster.
And what about the opposite?
You might say slow down.
Slow down.
Okay, so speed up and slow down.
So our third word for today is having a fit.
Having a fit.
Well, this is a funny phrase and I think listening to a few examples of this phrase might help
us understand its meaning a little bit better.
Geez, you don't need to have a fit.
Nothing is going to happen if we're five minutes late.
My boss is going to have a fit if I don't finish this on time.
I almost had a fit when my boss told me I had to work this weekend.
Okay, great example.
So Erica, why don't you tell me what does it mean when you have a fit?
It means you get really angry and you can't control your emotions.
So maybe you start screaming and maybe some steam comes out of your ears.
Okay, that's having a fit.
Okay, let's take a look at our next word now.
Cut through.
When you cut through something, it means you just go through.
Go through.
Yeah, quite simple.
It gives you the idea that you go through something quickly.
Quickly.
So I can say, let's cut through the park.
Yep, or let's cut through the backyard.
Okay, go through.
And this takes us to our last word for today, shortcut.
Shortcut.
Cut. This is a really common word and not many people know about it.
Yeah, you're right.
It's two simple words that when you fit them together, the meaning changes.
It's a great example of this real English we talk about.
And it means to take a shorter way somewhere.
So if I take a shortcut, I go the short way.
Okay, so going back just a little bit to cut through.
If I cut through the park, that's basically a shortcut.
All right, now it's clear.
Now it's time to listen to our dialogue again, but this time it's going to be slower so then
we can understand all these words that we've just talked about.
I'm in.
Make a left here.
Just drive.
Whatever.
Just turn right here.
Yes, we made it.
5.58, just before the library closes.
Okay, well I think that was a lot more clear this time.
You know, there was some great language in that dialogue and I would like to look at
how we can put it together.
Okay, so today on putting it together, we have three phrases for you.
And we're going to show you how you can use these phrases like a native speaker.
Okay, so all of these phrases we heard in the dialogue, why don't we start with the
Make a.
So in the dialogue, they say make a left here.
Yeah, and we can extend this phrase to say make a right.
That would be the equivalent of saying turn left.
Or turn right.
Turn right.
And there's one more.
Make a u-turn.
That means turn the car 180 degrees all the way around.
So make a left, make a right, make a u-turn.
If you're ever in a taxi and you're telling the taxi driver where to go, this is the perfect
way.
Make a left here, make a right there.
Okay, so let's move to our second phrase and it is, are you nuts?
So this is a great way of saying.
Are you crazy?
Are you insane?
Are you mad?
So when would we use a phrase like this?
If somebody has a bad idea that you don't agree with, you would say, are you crazy?
Or are you nuts?
So Marco, let's stop this podcast right now.
Okay, I think that's a good example of how we can use this phrase.
So are you nuts?
So let's listen to some examples of are you nuts?
You want to get married now?
You only met her three weeks ago.
I'm not going to cheat on the exam.
What if I get caught?
So I think that's clear and now we can move to our third phrase, which is, let's take
a side street.
Again, so if you're in a taxi, this is a great way to suggest a route or suggest a direction.
So we can take this phrase and extend it out with a few more words.
We might say, let's take Wilson Avenue.
Or let's take the highway.
So let's take a side street.
Let's take Wilson Avenue.
Let's take the freeway.
Okay, so now let's take a listen to this dialogue a third time at its normal speed and now you
can understand everything that's in this dialogue.
Hi man, let's go.
Let's go down here and we'll cut through Ashburn Heights.
5.58 just before the library closes.
Well this dialogue is all about driving, right?
In North America, where both of us are from, driving is everything.
Everybody has a car.
When did you get a car?
My car I got when I was like maybe 19.
But I learned how to drive and I was driving already by the age of 16.
Yeah, that's the thing.
In many countries you have to wait until I think you're 18 to drive, but in North America
everyone has a driver's license by the time they're 16 years old.
Because everything is so far away that you need a car.
Yeah, it's a lot less likely to have subways or trains to travel by in North America.
All right, so now you have all the tools necessary to give directions the next time you're in
a car or in a taxi.
Well everyone, I really hope you enjoyed this lesson.
Now I want to remind you all to come to our EnglishPod website at EnglishPod.com and here
you'll find a lot of tools to help you understand our podcasts better.
So with that, until next time, this is goodbye.
Hello, English learners, and welcome back to another episode of EnglishPod.
And today, with Erica, we are getting married.
Well, we're not getting married.
We're not, but our actors in the podcast are.
So we've got a lesson today about weddings.
A lot of the language in this lesson is about weddings and marriages.
And maybe you don't need to use this language every day, but learning this vocabulary will
definitely help you understand or learn a lot more about Anglo culture.
Okay, great point, Marco.
I think now we can look at our vocabulary preview.
So two simple words in this vocabulary preview.
The first one is groom.
Groom.
So who is the groom?
Is the man, the man that's getting married.
And our second word is...
Bride.
And obviously, the bride is...
The woman getting married.
Now we have our bride and our groom, so it's time to listen to our dialogue the first time.
I can't believe that Anthony is finally getting married.
Yeah, well, it's about time.
He's been living with his parents for 40 years.
Don't be mean.
Look, here come the bridesmaids.
Their dresses look beautiful.
Who are those kids walking down the aisle?
That's the flower girl and the ring bearer.
I'm pretty sure that they're the groom's niece and nephew.
Oh, they look so cute.
I just hope the priest makes it quick.
I'm starving.
I hope the food's good at the reception.
That's all you ever think about, food.
Oh, I think the bride's coming now.
She looks gorgeous.
Wait, what's she doing?
Where is she going?
Does this mean that the reception is canceled?
Oh, Marco, that's so sad.
I know, the reception is canceled now.
Marco, they're not getting married.
Oh, well, I mean, the best part is when you go and eat and drink at the reception.
Well, there's some great language in this dialogue.
And now, let's look at our language takeaway.
Our first word on the language takeaway today is, it's about time.
It's about time.
So now, we are going to listen to some examples on how we use this great phrase.
Dinner's ready.
Guess what?
I finally got a job.
You've been unemployed for two years.
We're almost there.
Just a couple more minutes.
We've been driving for 12 hours.
So this phrase means, finally.
Finally, at last.
We've been waiting a long time for this.
So, it's about time.
Let's take a look at our second word now.
Aisle.
A-I-S-L-E.
It's a tricky word.
It sounds like the contraction of I will.
Yeah, but it's spelled so strangely.
You don't pronounce the S. The S is silent.
It's aisle.
So what is an aisle?
In a big room where you have a lot of chairs, that space in the middle that allows people
to walk through, that's the aisle.
So the aisle is the part where you walk.
In a big room.
With many chairs.
So, in the church, the bride and groom walked on the aisle.
Let's move to our third word.
This is a very tricky one.
So, who are the bridesmaids?
Bridesmaid.
Bridesmaids.
Or wait, maybe you should ask me that.
Yeah, because we don't get bridesmaids.
So, the bridesmaids are the women who are friends of the bride who stand next to her
when she's getting married.
Usually, they're her best friends.
So, we have our bridesmaids.
Now, we have our flower girl.
Flower girl.
Again, I'll explain this one.
Please, please.
The flower girl is that cute little girl who walks down the aisle and who throws flowers.
That's the flower girl.
And, with the flower girl, we have our ring bearer.
Ring bearer.
So, the ring bearer is the cute little boy who walks down the aisle carrying the...
Rings.
So, a lot of useful vocabulary for a wedding ceremony.
Now, let's look at our last word.
Gorgeous.
Gorgeous means beautiful.
Very beautiful.
You know, beautiful, you can only use with a woman.
Can you use gorgeous with a woman or with a man?
Gorgeous is unisex.
So, both men and women are gorgeous.
So, that girl is gorgeous.
That guy is gorgeous.
Or you can say even this house is gorgeous.
So, men, women, objects.
Yes, yes.
Well, we've learned some really interesting vocabulary that will help us to understand
an Anglo wedding.
So, why don't we listen to the dialogue slowed down?
Well, it's about time.
I'm pretty sure they're the groom's niece and nephew.
Where's she going?
Now in this dialogue, we have a word that many students often make mistakes on.
So this is a word that causes a lot of problems.
Yes, the word marry.
Marry.
Marry, right?
So we are going to listen now to some common mistakes on how English learners use this
word.
Right, so these are wrong examples.
Honey, let's marry.
We married four years ago.
When I marry, I want a huge wedding.
These are great examples of mistakes students make with the word marry.
They're missing a word.
Let's listen to these right examples to see what word is missing.
Honey, let's get married.
We got married four years ago.
When I get married, I want a huge wedding.
Great, so we can see that when we use the word marry, we say to get married.
Exactly right.
Get married.
To get married, right?
Okay, don't forget that.
I will get married.
We got married.
So now you know exactly how to use this word.
We are ready to listen to our dialogue again for a third time and this time it's going
to be at a normal speed.
That's the flower girl and the rain bearer.
So great.
Okay, well, I'm going to be honest with you.
I don't know too much about marriages because, first of all, I'm not married and I've never
really been to many marriages.
So, Erica, some questions for you.
What are these bridesmaids do?
I mean, what are they about?
What do the bridesmaids do?
Yeah, what are they doing there?
Well, like I said earlier, the bridesmaids are the friends of the bride.
But the most important people, besides the bride and groom, are the best man and the
maid of honor.
And what do they do there in the ceremony?
Well, what they do is they sign the marriage license.
So they're like witnesses.
So, but wait a minute.
They sign the marriage license there in the church?
Yeah, of course.
Right inside the church, you sign the marriage license.
Wow, that's strange because, from what I know, in other countries, usually you will sign
the marriage license before the ceremony.
So you get married twice?
Yeah, you have like the civil marriage and then you have like the church wedding or whatever.
That's so complicated.
Well, yeah, I mean, the church wedding is just the ceremony.
It's not really anything official.
Oh, in Canada, it's the official part as well.
I guess maybe you're just more efficient.
Maybe.
Well, this is a really fascinating, a really interesting subject, isn't it?
Yeah, because there's so many countries that have different marriage ceremonies.
I know that marriages in India last around seven days.
I want to know more about how our users get married in their country.
So please go to our website at EnglishPod.com and tell us how you get married in your countries.
Yeah, I can't wait to hear your stories.
Yeah, it should be interesting, right?
Well, everyone, thanks for listening and until next time, goodbye.
Hello everyone, welcome to EnglishPod, my name is Marco.
And today with Erika we have a very aggressive lesson for you today.
That's true, we've got a revolutionary lesson.
Yes, today at EnglishPod we're protesting.
So Erika, why don't you tell us what a protest is?
Well, when you protest something, you go into the streets and show your disagreement.
Right, and you yell and you have signs and everyone's just protesting.
And the news comes and if it's not clear now, it'll be clear after the dialogue, I'm sure.
Definitely, definitely.
So why don't we start with our vocabulary preview?
We have two words in our vocabulary preview today.
The first is bankrupt.
Bankrupt.
So if a company goes bankrupt, what happens?
It means the company doesn't have any more money.
So it can't pay salaries.
It can't pay anything.
Can't pay its bills, yeah.
So basically if it's bankrupt, it's probably going to close.
Okay, our second word today is bailout.
Bailout.
B-A-I-L, bailout.
So bailout is when the government gives money to a company that is about to go bankrupt.
That's true, it's emergency money that will help save the company.
Well these two words are taken directly from our dialogue.
And in today's dialogue, we're going to bring you live to a newscast.
Right, so why don't we just listen to the dialogue?
This is Action 5 News reporter Sarah O'Connell reporting live from Washington, D.C. where
a protest has broken out.
Thousands of angry citizens are protesting against the proposed bailout of the auto manufacturing
industry.
Sir, sir, Sarah O'Connell, 10 on 5 News, can you tell us what's happening?
Yeah, yeah, we're here because we feel this is an injustice.
The financial irresponsibility of big business has to stop.
We're here to show the government that we don't like the way they're spending our tax
dollars.
Sir, but what exactly is making everyone so angry?
It's an absolute outrage, Sarah.
The U.S. government wants to give $25 billion of taxpayers' money to the auto industry.
These are companies that have been mismanaged and are now nearly bankrupt.
But many supporters of the bailout argue that it could help save the jobs of millions of
hardworking Americans.
That may be true, and I for one don't want to see anyone lose their job.
But how can these CEOs ask for a bailout when they're making millions of dollars?
And then they have the nerve to fly to Washington in private jets.
This costs hundreds of thousands of dollars.
They're asking for money.
That is just not right.
Good point.
This is Sarah O'Connell reporting live from Washington, D.C.
Back to you, Tom.
Wow, these people are really angry.
I think they're furious.
Well, I think they have some good points, and we'll talk about that later.
But now it's time for Language Takeaway.
Language Takeaway.
Yeah, there was some great language in this dialogue.
A lot of language we use to express our anger.
And one of those words, and the first one for Language Takeaway is injustice.
Injustice.
An injustice.
So, an injustice is something that isn't fair.
It's totally unfair.
It's unfair, yeah.
This is an injustice.
Let's look at our second word, outrage.
Outrage.
An outrage.
So, Erica, why don't you give us an example on how you would use outrage.
There's no more coffee.
This is an outrage.
Yeah, there we go.
That's an outrage.
Let's go to our next word now.
Breakout.
So, we have some great examples on how we use breakout, so let's listen.
War is broken out in Antarctica as countries of the world fight for control of the icy
continent.
Officials are warning that fighting could break out in the border regions.
A forest fire broke out last night.
Well, this is a wonderful phrasal verb that means...
To begin suddenly.
Okay, so I think that's pretty clear.
Mismanaged.
So, when something is mismanaged, it's...
Not managed properly.
Managed poorly.
Poorly, right.
So, our final word today is...
Have the nerve to.
I think this one also is a little bit difficult to understand.
Yeah, but we have some great examples prepared for you, so let's listen to them.
I've been in love with you since the third grade, but I didn't have the nerves to tell
you.
I don't believe it.
You have the nerve to ask me for money when you know I've just lost my job.
You have the nerve to bring your new girlfriend to visit my mother.
So have the nerve to is like dare to do something, right?
Yeah, how dare you.
It's like, I can't believe you would do that.
Yeah, I think that's quite clear.
A lot of great words in our dialogue today.
And also, we have some really interesting grammar in today's dialogue.
So, today, let's look at some grammar breakdown.
Grammar breakdown.
In this section, grammar breakdown, we show you a particular grammar structure and explain
a little bit about how that structure affects meaning.
So, it's not really about getting the grammar perfectly right, it's about understanding
the meaning.
And in today's lesson, we saw some really great examples on how we use the present perfect
tense.
Let's listen to an example from the dialogue.
Where a protest has broken out.
See the verb here, break out, like a protest has broken out, happened in the past, right?
And it's still going on now.
So, present perfect is used when we're talking about an event that happened in the past and
is continuing on now.
Or is continuing to affect now.
Okay, I think that's pretty clear.
Yeah, but now, if you want to indicate or if you want to demonstrate that the action
has finished, the event is over, then you would say it like this.
A protest broke out.
In this form, you see that the protest is over.
It happened yesterday already.
And I think it's really emphasizing the fact that it is no longer affecting the present
moment.
So, remember, the difference between present perfect and simple past.
Now, if you want to know more about these tenses, present perfect and simple past, be
sure to go to our website at EnglishPod.com.
In the grammar section, you can find some more great examples and a really clear explanation
on how these tenses are formed.
But now, we are ready to listen to our dialogue a second time.
This is Action 5 news reporter Sarah O'Connell reporting live from Washington, D.C., where
Sir, sir, Sarah O'Connell, Channel 5 News.
Can you tell us what's happening?
We're here because we feel this is an injustice.
Okay, Erica, so what do you think about this situation?
About the bailout of the auto industry?
I think it's a bad idea.
There's so many reasons.
I mean, I don't think it's fair for us as taxpayers.
Well, I guess I'm not really an American taxpayer, but I don't think it's fair for the taxpayers
to have to pay for the mismanagement of these companies.
I mean, they've got so much debt.
They've produced cars that nobody really wants to buy, and now they're in trouble.
And it's not our money that should be spent on saving them.
Yeah, I would agree with you on that.
But you do have to take into consideration the fact that if these companies go bankrupt,
millions of people will lose their jobs, and not only the people that work at the factories,
but also people that work for other companies that supply these factories.
Yeah, I mean, I see what you're saying, Marco, but at the same time, we can't support an
industry that isn't working properly.
I mean, if one of these companies goes bankrupt, it's going to be terrible, but it will force
the other two companies, perhaps, to manage themselves better, to streamline and become
more efficient.
I just think it will be better in the future.
Well, it could be, but also maybe all three companies can go bankrupt.
It would be sad because the American car, the American auto industry is a symbol of
prosperity.
It's also the symbol of the American culture in general.
I guess that's true.
So it would be a shame for it to go bankrupt because everyone owns a car in the United
States, or most people, and it's just something that we can't lose.
But it is an interesting topic and we also want to know your opinions about this.
Yeah, listeners, please come to our website at EnglishPod.com and tell us what you think
about this bailout and about this lesson.
On the website, we'll post a link to the news article where you can read a little bit more
about this because this is actually going on now.
Hello English learners and welcome to another lesson with EnglishPod.
And today we're bringing you a great Christmas lesson.
We've got a lot of Christmas vocabulary in today's lesson for you.
Yeah, it's almost Christmas time so everyone is getting into the spirit, especially here
at EnglishPod, so we're going to teach you a little bit more about this.
Speaking of the spirit, I think it's time for us to look at our vocabulary preview.
So in this part of our show, we'll look at some key language in the dialogue that you'll
need to know to understand the dialogue.
And actually today we only have one word.
Eggnog.
E-G-G-N-O-G.
So, eggnog is a really popular Christmas drink.
It's a traditional Christmas drink.
What is it made of?
It's eggs, cream, sugar, and usually rum.
Rum.
Oh, so it has alcohol.
Yeah, normally it has alcohol.
That's interesting.
There's actually a drink very similar to this in Chile.
They call it monkey tail.
So in Spanish that would be...
Cola de mono.
Very nice.
Yeah, so it's actually really, really good.
I mean, it's really similar to eggnog.
So with that in mind, let's take a listen to our dialogue for the first time.
I hate working on Christmas Eve.
Whoa, get a load of this guy.
Come in, Central.
I think we got ourselves a situation here.
License and registration, please.
Have you been drinking tonight, sir?
I had one or two glasses of eggnog, but nothing else.
Step out of the vehicle, please.
Sir, what do you have in the back?
Just a few Christmas gifts.
Tis the season, after all.
Don't take that tone with me.
Do you have an invoice for these items?
I make these in my workshop in the North Pole.
You are under arrest, sir.
You have the right to remain silent.
You better not pout.
You better not cry.
Anything you say can and will be used against you.
You have the right to an attorney.
If you can't afford one, the state will appoint one for you.
Do you understand these rights that have just been read to you?
You can't take me to jail.
What about my sleigh?
It's Christmas Eve.
I have presents to deliver.
Rudolph, prancer, dancer, good health!
Well I did not see that one coming.
That was interesting.
Santa Claus is being taken to jail.
What's gonna happen next, Marco?
We'll talk about that in a little while.
Let's take a look at some language from this dialogue.
So the first word that we have on our language takeaway today is vehicle.
Vehicle.
So this is a vehicle.
And this is a vehicle.
So all of those are vehicles.
Now I thought that a vehicle was a car specifically.
No, any machine that carries people from one place to another is a vehicle.
Alright.
Let's take a look now at our second word.
Attorney.
So what is an attorney?
A lawyer.
Well that's simple enough.
Yep, a lawyer.
Let's move to our third word which is appoint.
Appoint.
So appoint means choose.
Okay, so the president of a country might appoint his chief of staff.
Right, or I can appoint my attorney.
True.
So can you appoint a thing?
Can I appoint my coffee cup?
You only use it for people.
You choose someone.
Okay, appoint.
You can't choose something.
So I appoint someone.
Alright, let's move to our final word.
Sleigh.
So, Erica, you're from Canada.
You can tell us about sleighs.
A sleigh is a vehicle that is pulled by a horse and travels over snow or ice.
So, you know, like Santa drives a sleigh.
He drives a sleigh.
So do you drive a sleigh or ride a sleigh?
Good question.
Well, the song says you ride in a one-horse open sleigh.
Right, okay.
I think it's time for us to look at some interesting phrases that we found in this dialogue.
So let's look at putting it together.
Today on Putting it Together, we have two great phrases for you and let's take a look
at the first one.
Step out.
So step out means to go out of a place for a short period of time.
So in our dialogue, for example, the police officer said, step out of the vehicle.
Get out of your vehicle.
You can also say, step out of the office.
You can say, I just stepped out of the shower.
Now, we can also say, step in.
It's the opposite.
The opposite, right?
I can ask Marco, step into my office for a moment.
So that's step out and step in.
Great phrases.
Let's take a look at our final phrase.
Get a load of.
So when I say get a load of something, I mean look at, right?
Look at this guy.
Get a load of this guy.
Yeah, that's what we heard in the dialogue.
Now, you can use this phrase in a number of different ways and we have some examples for
Get a load of this.
A war has started in Antarctica.
Get a load of that house.
It's so big.
Get a load of him.
He's wearing a pink suit.
Okay, I think we've covered a lot of interesting words and phrases, so we are ready to listen
to our dialogue a second time.
But this time it's going to be a little bit slower so we can pick up all these great words.
Come in central.
Passes and registration please.
Um, no.
If you cannot afford one, the state will appoint one for you.
Do you understand all these rights that have just been read to you?
Rudolph, prancer, dancer, get help.
Okay, so we noticed some really great words and phrases and with this, now we can start
with some Fluency Builder.
Today, on Fluency Builder, we have two great phrases that you can use to sound a little
bit more natural when you speak.
Our first phrase you can use if you want to say, don't speak to me like that.
So you often hear this phrase coming out of the mouth of a mother or a father.
Yeah, when their children are maybe talking back.
Don't take that tone with me, young man.
I used to get that a lot.
I'm not sure about that.
Okay, our second phrase, we use it when we have a problem.
The phrase we heard in the dialogue was, I think we've got ourselves a situation here.
Let's listen to another example.
Houston, we've got ourselves a situation here.
Sometimes I use this phrase when I want to tell my boss that I have a problem.
I might say, boss, I've got a bit of a situation.
Can you help me with it?
Yeah, I have a little bit of a problem.
Useful phrases, hey?
Really useful phrases.
Great stuff.
So now we can listen to our dialogue a final time and this time we can understand everything
that's in it.
I think we've got ourselves a situation here.
Rudolph, prancer, dancer, good health.
So when the police officer was arresting Santa Claus, he said something a little bit strange,
hey?
Yeah, he said, you better not pout.
Now, are those part of the normal rights that a police officer reads?
They're not part of the normal rights.
It's actually from a Christmas song, so let's listen to how it goes in the song.
You better watch out.
I'm telling you why.
Santa Claus is coming to town.
I'm pretty happy we had a song to play there instead of us having to sing.
Yeah, but that's great because if the children cry or if they are not good kids, then Santa
Claus will not give them presents.
So that's why.
Okay, listeners, I hope that you're not pouting.
I hope you're not crying, but it's time for us to go.
So be sure to go to our website at EnglishPod.com and be sure to leave all your questions and
comments and maybe some of your Christmas stories.
All right, thanks for listening and until next time, goodbye.
Well, hello everyone and welcome to EnglishPod.
I'm doing great and I'm really looking forward to our lesson because we're going to the eye
doctor today.
Okay, so we've got an elementary lesson about going to the eye doctor.
Well, let's get started then with our vocabulary preview.
We have three words today in our vocabulary preview.
All three words come from our dialogue.
Our first word is struggle.
Struggle.
So, Marco, when I struggle to do something, what does that mean?
It means it's difficult.
It means that you have a hard time so you can't really do it very quickly.
So you have to try really hard.
You have to try really hard.
Yeah, to do something that's difficult.
Okay, our next word is blurry.
Blurry.
B-L-U-R-R-Y.
Whenever something is blurry, you can't really see it well.
It's not clear.
Everything will be blurry.
Okay, and our final word is prescription.
Prescription.
Often, when you go to the doctor and you need some medicine, he writes out a prescription.
It's like a paper that says all the medicine that you need and then you can go to the drug
store and buy it.
Okay, so those three words you'll hear in today's dialogue and I think it's time we
listen to the dialogue.
Hello, Arthur.
What seems to be the problem?
Hey, Doc.
Well, I think I might need glasses.
I'm getting headaches and I really struggle to see things that are far away.
But I've always had 20-20 vision.
Sounds like you might be farsighted.
Okay, then cover your left eye and read the chart in front of you.
X-E-R-3?
Question mark.
And I can't quite make out the other symbol, but I think it's the peace sign.
Wow, Arthur, you're as blind as a bat.
My vision is really blurry at times.
Okay, then.
Head over to the other room and pick out some frames while I fill out your prescription.
Thanks, Doc.
Arthur, that's the bathroom.
Well, this guy really has poor vision, hey?
Well, actually, you know what?
I've walked into the bathroom, the men's bathroom, actually, instead of the women's
bathroom and that's not because I wasn't wearing my glasses.
It's because you weren't paying attention.
Okay, let's take a look today at our language takeaway.
The first word on our language takeaway for today is 20-20 vision.
20-20 vision.
If I have 20-20 vision...
It means that you have perfect vision.
Which I do not have.
No, me neither.
So I usually wear glasses as well.
But yeah, people that have 20-20 vision don't need glasses.
They can see clearly.
And perfectly.
Next word is far-sighted.
Far-sighted.
So, if I'm far-sighted, I can't see very well, right?
So if you're far-sighted, you can't see things that are near.
So you can see things that are far away, but things that are close are blurry.
And the opposite would be?
Near-sighted.
And which is?
You can see things that are close well.
But not far.
Far-sighted and near-sighted.
So our next word is make out.
Make out.
That's kind of a funny little phrase.
And let's listen to a few examples of this phrase so we can understand how it's used.
I can't make out what this says.
The writing is too small.
If you look carefully, you can almost make out a few of the stars in the sky.
Can you see what's written on the sign there?
I can't quite make it out.
So basically, make out is to see clearly.
Mm-hmm.
To see.
And our last word for language takeaway today is blind as a bat.
Blind as a bat.
So this is a really funny sounding expression.
One of these weird English idioms.
It's a really common expression that just means that you can't see.
So it's not like you actually are blind, right?
But you just really can't see very well.
We saw four great words today in our language takeaway.
Now I think we can listen to our dialogue another time.
But this time, it's going to be slower so we can pick up all these great words that
we just talked about.
Sounds like you may be farsighted.
Cover your left eye and read the chart in front of you.
X, E, R, 3, question mark, and I can't quite make out the other symbol, but I think it's
a peace sign.
Head on over to the other room and pick out some frames while I fill out your prescription.
Great stuff on our dialogue.
And with this, we can start now with putting it together.
So we saw a couple of useful phrases in this dialogue, and I think we can show you how
to use these phrases in a few different ways.
The first one that we have today is, what seems to be.
So we heard in the dialogue, the doctor said, what seems to be the problem.
We can use this same expression in a number of different ways.
What seems to be the matter?
What seems to be the trouble?
Okay, so with these examples, we can see how we can use the phrase, what seems to be, in
many different ways.
Yeah, it's a great way of asking, what's the problem?
So now, let's take a look at another phrase.
We heard in the dialogue, the doctor said, head on over to the other room.
And with this phrase, head on, we can combine it with other prepositions to indicate another
place.
Let's hear three examples.
Head on in.
Head on out.
Head on up.
Okay, so for example, we can say, head on into the house, it's gonna rain soon.
Or we can say, hey guys, let's head on out to the park.
Or I can also say, head on up to my room, I'll be there in a second.
Those are some cool phrases.
Right, and they're real useful.
So why don't we listen to our dialogue and maybe we'll hear them again.
Hello Arthur, what seems to be the problem?
Hey Doc.
Okay then, cover your left eye and read the chart in front of you.
the peace sign.
Okay then, head over to the other room and pick out some frames while I fill out your
prescription.
Thanks Doc.
Okay, so talking about going to the eye doctor today, I have a question for our listeners.
A challenge for our listeners.
What's it called when you can't distinguish colors?
So like when you can't tell the difference between red and blue and green.
So what is that condition called?
So there's like a technical term.
We want the technical term.
So we'll be looking for it on our comments page and be sure to, if you know the answer,
post it.
At EnglishPod.com.
Also, if you have questions about today's lesson or any other lesson, please come and
visit our website and ask us.
Yeah, we hope to see you there, but until then it's goodbye.
Hello, English learners and welcome back to another great lesson with EnglishPod.
And today we're bringing you a great intermediate lesson with some really useful vocabulary.
Some vocabulary you can use to describe your job.
This is a really common situation when someone asks you what you do and you have to tell
them.
So today's lesson is all about that.
So before we jump into our dialogue, let's start with our vocabulary preview.
We have two simple phrases today that you'll hear in our dialogue for our vocabulary preview.
The first one is VP.
VP.
So the VP of a company is?
The vice president.
Simple little acronym.
And the next word is Fortune 500 company.
Fortune 500 company.
So a Fortune 500 company is?
I'll let you explain.
Well, Fortune magazine ranks the 500 biggest companies in the US.
So a Fortune 500 company basically is?
One of the 500 biggest companies in the US.
That's simple.
Well, with those words, it sounds like we're going to be talking to some important people
We are going to be talking to some important people.
So let's listen to our dialogue for the first time.
Now it's going to be a little bit fast, but you don't have to worry about it.
Because we'll come back and explain all of the important vocabulary.
Oh, look.
There's Caroline and her boyfriend.
She's always going on about him at the office.
They saw us.
They're coming this way.
Oh, man.
Jessica, Arthur.
Hi.
I'd like you to meet my boyfriend, Greg.
He's the VP of quality and safety for a top Fortune 500 food company.
Nice to meet you.
This is my husband, Arthur.
Hey, how's it going?
Caroline talks about you all the time.
I guess he must be pretty busy at work.
VP position is not easy, you know.
I implement policies and procedures nationwide in various departments, as well as trained
junior managers in FDA and EPA regulations.
I also have to oversee daily operations of our quality control for the entire East Coast.
That alone means I have 1,500 employees under me.
Yeah, that sounds exciting.
And what about you, Arthur?
What do you do for a living?
I'm a top gun pilot.
Great music for our dialogue again, huh?
Chosen by?
By moi.
Yeah, Top Gun is one of my all-time favorite movies.
And top gun pilot, what a cool profession.
An excellent profession.
Much cooler than being like the VP.
How boring is that?
Anyway, this guy was a bit of a jerk, don't you think?
Yeah, you can tell a little bit of the sarcastic tone he had in his voice.
But he did use some interesting phrases and we can talk about those now.
So let's take a look at language takeaway.
Our first word for language takeaways is implement.
Implement.
Let's listen to some examples of this word to help us understand its meaning.
Our company has to implement this sales strategy.
Sarah will be responsible for implementing the plan.
I implemented several new policies.
Okay, great examples.
And just in case, to implement means to put into action.
Put into action.
Our second word for language takeaway, policies.
Policies.
So, policies are basically rules and regulations.
Formal rules.
For a company or an organization.
Third word.
Oversee.
So, when you oversee operations, it means?
Like, you watch it to make sure it's okay.
You supervise it.
This is an excellent word to use when you want to talk about your job responsibilities.
And our last word for language takeaway, it's kind of tricky, so let's listen to how it
was used in our dialogue.
So this guy has 1,500 employees under him, meaning he supervises 1,500 employees.
He manages 1,500 employees.
He must be a busy man.
For 1,500 employees.
How many employees do you have under you, Erica?
Two.
Not quite as much as 1,500.
I guess I'm not a VP right yet, hey?
Not yet, but you will.
So, with this in mind, we are ready to listen to our dialogue for a second time, and this
time it's going to be slower.
Jessica, Arthur, hi.
I guess you must be pretty busy at work.
A VP position is not easy, you know.
I implement policies and procedures nationwide of various departments, as well as train junior
managers in FDA and EPA regulations.
That sounds exciting.
Oh, I'm a top gun pilot.
Okay, great stuff.
With this, now we can start with our fluency builder for today.
We heard some excellent phrases in this dialogue, some phrases that sound really natural, hey?
Yes, especially the first one that we have today is whenever someone talks and talks
and talks and just, and continuously talks without stopping, you would say...
This is a really natural way of saying keeps talking about.
Right, keeps talking about him.
So we have a few examples of how this phrase works.
My boss is always going on about how we need to save money.
It's all he talks about.
Gary is always going on about his kids.
He's always talking about how smart they are.
My mom is always going on about how I should get married.
Okay, excellent.
It's clear now.
Okay, so let's move on to our second phrase for today and this is a great one to use whenever
you meet someone for the first time.
Or when you start to talk to someone for the first time.
So this is a really relaxed and natural way of saying how are you?
How are you?
So yeah, you can just say, hey, how's it going?
Really natural sounding.
Now, our third phrase is the most important one of our dialogue.
And it's a really common situation.
When someone asks you about your job, they might say this.
Arthur, what do you do for a living?
So this is a really great way of asking what work do you do or what is your job?
I know a lot of students sometimes say, what is your job?
And that is, it's kind of correct, but not really.
It doesn't sound very natural.
So you can use, what do you do?
Or what do you do for a living?
Sounds great.
That's the way you ask someone what is their job.
And that's how you sound super natural.
So we're ready now to listen to our dialogue a last time.
And now you are ready to understand everything.
Oh, look, there's Caroline and her boyfriend.
Oh man.
Well, yeah, VP position is not easy to know.
I implement policies and procedures nationwide, various departments, as well as trained junior
That alone means I have 1500 employees under me.
Wow, yeah, that sounds exciting.
Okay so I have a little challenge for our listeners today.
What is it?
I have two challenges.
The first one, who performs the song that you heard and what is the song called?
Okay, I don't know the answer.
So I'm looking forward to seeing what users do.
And the second one is, what is the number one company in the Fortune 500?
Oh, I also don't know this answer.
Two great questions.
So I expect to see your answers on the comments page.
But also we want to know about your profession.
Tell us about your job.
Tell us what you do and use some of the great phrases you learned today to describe your
answer.
So we hope to see you there but we're out of time now.
So we'll see everyone at EnglishPod.com.
Leave all your questions and of course all the comments.
And Marco and I are always around to answer your questions.
So until then, it's goodbye.
Hello everyone, welcome back to EnglishPod.
And today we're bringing you the second part of Christmas Chronicles.
Another Christmas lesson to get you in the Christmas spirit.
Christmas and useful language for all of our listeners today.
In today's lesson, we'll be learning some great Christmas vocabulary.
And police-related vocabulary as well.
Now, Christmas, police vocabulary, how exactly does that fit together?
Well, they don't.
But here at EnglishPod, we can make anything happen.
So that's why we have done this.
To be creative.
So, let's take a look at our vocabulary preview for this lesson.
In today's vocabulary preview, we've got two words from our dialogue that you will need
to know to understand this dialogue.
The first one is elves.
Elves.
And this is the plural of the word elf.
Elf, right.
So elves are?
Little people.
Little people with pointy hats?
With pointy hats.
Sense is helpers.
So elves.
Our next word is candy cane.
Candy cane.
So a candy cane is a traditional Christmas candy, right?
It's red and white.
And it kind of shaped like a J?
Like a J, yeah.
It's very traditional.
Yeah, you hang them on the tree and you eat them at Christmas time.
Tastes like peppermint.
Okay, well, I guess we're ready to listen to our dialogue for the first time.
And it's going to be kind of fast, but...
Don't worry if you don't understand everything because we'll come back and talk about some
of the language later.
Santa Claus is coming straight to the dinner table.
Really, fellas?
Don't you know who I am?
Kris Kringle, you know?
Papa Noel, Père Noel, Baba Natale.
Shungudan no Chant.
Yeah, yeah, we've heard that one before, haven't we, Joe?
Yeah, last week we booked this guy who claimed to be a tooth fairy.
Can you believe that?
It's Christmas Eve and I have all these presents to deliver.
Where's your Christmas spirit?
What will happen when all the children wake up tomorrow and don't find any gifts in their
stockings?
Sorry, buddy, you're parked in a no-parking zone.
You were speeding and you have no ID.
Besides that, even if we let you go now, your sleigh's been impounded and those reindeer
were taken to the city zoo.
This is unbelievable.
What's this world coming to?
Christmas is ruined.
What's that up ahead?
It looks like...
Elves!
Whoa, they're shooting candy canes!
Mayday, mayday!
We're under heavy attack!
We need backup!
Okay, so Santa has escaped from the police car.
Hooray!
Thank God!
It's like a war over there.
They were really firing everything.
I know, I mean, those elves are...
Aggressive.
Very aggressive.
Okay, well, we can take a look at some great vocabulary from this dialogue.
Why don't we start with our language takeaway for today?
In today's language takeaway, we have five really important words that we hope you will
take away from the lesson.
Exactly, and the first word that we have today is booked.
Booked.
Booked is another way of saying...
Arrested.
Yeah, it's a slang word, hey?
It's kind of slang, yeah.
It's a slang word, booked.
Okay, next word, speeding.
Speeding.
So, Santa was speeding because he was...
Going too fast.
Driving too fast, yeah.
Going over the speed limit.
Third word today is...
Impounded.
That's when your car gets arrested.
Your car gets arrested.
Yeah, they take your car to car jail.
Okay, so my car is in car jail.
I think I understand.
It's impounded.
Okay, so the police take my car and I have to...
Pay to get it out.
Let's move to our next word, ruined.
Ruined.
We have a few examples for us to listen to, to understand the meaning of this word.
It's been raining for five days.
Our vacation is ruined.
Look at this hole.
You've ruined my favorite pair of jeans.
Sam, you've been caught stealing from the company.
Your chances for a promotion are ruined.
Okay, great examples and basically ruined means...
Destroyed.
Yeah, messed up.
Messed up.
So, our next word, backup.
Backup.
So, now for our last word.
Okay, so now for our last word and language takeaway, backup.
So, backup is...
Help.
Right?
So, when you call for backup, you call for help.
Yeah, you see it all the time in war movies, police, call for backup.
So, important to point out that here, the pronunciation and stress of this phrase is
really important, hey?
You have to say backup.
So, both words are stressed at about the same level, hey?
Because if you were to say back up...
That means to move back.
Yeah, it's different.
So, backup, backup.
Yes, the stress is important.
The stress.
With those words in mind, it's time for us to listen to the dialogue a second time.
Really, fellas, you can't take me to jail.
Papa Noel, Parent Noel, Baba Natale, Shonda Lawrent.
Yeah, yeah, we've heard that one before.
Haven't we, Joe?
Yeah, last week we booked this guy who claimed to be the tooth fairy.
It's Christmas Eve, and I have all these presents to deliver.
Sorry, buddy, you were parked in a no-parking zone.
You were speeding, and you have no ID.
Besides that, even if we let you go now, your sleigh has been impounded, and those reindeer
What's the world coming to?
It looks like elves.
Whoa, they're shooting candy canes.
Mayday, mayday.
We are under heavy attack.
We need backup.
Okay, so without the sound effects and without any noise, I think it's much more clear now,
A little less dramatic.
Less dramatic, but good language.
Speaking of good language, there's some great phrases I want to look at in this dialogue,
and so let's do that in Putting It Together.
Putting It Together.
We have two phrases in Putting It Together that we want to show you how you can use in
many different situations.
In the dialogue, we heard this.
Last week we booked this guy who claimed to be a tooth fairy.
So when you claim to be something, you're saying that you are something, but it might
not be true, right?
So for example, you can say, this woman claimed to be your wife.
But she's not.
We have a few other examples of how you can use the phrase claim to.
Daniel claimed to be the son of a government minister, but later we found out that he was
lying.
The criminals claim to have a gun.
This man here is claiming to know your father.
That's such a great phrase.
Just by putting it together with another verb means something different, but still expresses
Claim to have.
She claimed to have a baby or something.
So let's move to our next phrase.
Under heavy.
So in the dialogue, they said we're under heavy attack.
You can also use this phrase in a couple of other ways.
We're under heavy attack.
We're under heavy fire.
The prime minister is under heavy security.
So if you're under heavy fire.
Means that there's a lot of fire.
Like gunfire.
Gunfire, yeah.
Yeah, not like fire fire.
And if you're under heavy security.
It means that you have a lot of security, a lot of bodyguards or a lot of.
Like a prime minister or president would be under heavy security.
A couple of great phrases.
Really good phrases and with this, we can listen to our dialogue a third time.
Really, Fuzz, you can't take me to jail.
Kris Kringle, you know.
Chantant l'Enfant.
We've heard that one before, haven't we, Joe?
I even book this guy who claimed to be a tooth fairy.
Sorry, buddy, you're parked in a no parking zone.
Mayday, mayday, we're under heavy attack.
So, Marco, the police mentioned something about the tooth fairy.
The tooth fairy.
I don't know, maybe some of our listeners don't know this story about the tooth fairy.
So can I go ahead and say it?
Yes, go ahead.
Okay, well, when you're small and you lose a tooth.
Your baby teeth.
Yeah, you put it underneath your pillow and then you go to sleep.
And then in the night, the tooth fairy comes into the house, flies into the house, sneaks
under your pillow, takes the tooth and puts money there.
So this is a story that parents tell their kids about what happens to their baby teeth.
And they get money in exchange for it.
So I guess it takes away the sadness of losing that tooth.
But in South America, for example, we have the tooth mouse.
The tooth mouse.
How does it call them in Spanish?
Oh, well, in some places it's called Ratoncito Perez.
Like it has a last name Perez.
In other places, it's just called Ratoncito, which means mouse.
Okay, so it'd be like tooth fairy Smith.
Yeah, tooth fairy Smith.
And it's the same thing.
It's a little mouse that comes in and steals a little tooth from you and leaves money in
exchange.
Cool.
Very cool.
So we go from Santa Claus to Guns and Wars to the tooth fairy.
Only at EnglishPod.
All right, guys.
I hope you enjoyed today's lesson.
If you have any questions or comments about the lesson, please visit our website, EnglishPod.com.
Well, we're out of time.
We got to go.
We've got some Christmas shopping to do.
Yes, Christmas shopping.
So we'll see you guys later.
Hello English learners, welcome to another great lesson with EnglishPod.
So, Erika, how are you today?
I'm doing pretty well.
And I think we've got a good lesson today, a really helpful lesson.
What are we talking about today?
We have an elementary lesson about making an appointment.
Alright, making an appointment.
Yeah, that's really helpful.
I guess you have to make appointments for the doctor or...
At work maybe.
At work, personal.
Or with your friends, yeah.
So, this is language that you can use every day to make appointments.
Well, so, why don't we take a look at our vocabulary preview.
We only have one word today which you need to know to understand this dialogue.
And it is financial advisor.
Financial advisor.
So, what is a financial advisor?
A financial advisor is a person who gives suggestions or recommendations about investing
money.
Someone who wants you to put money in the stock market.
I guess we're ready now to listen to our dialogue for the first time.
And as always, it's going to be at a normal speed, but you don't have to worry about it
because...
We'll come back and teach you all the important words.
Hello?
Fairbrook Consulting.
How may I help you?
Yes, this is Julianne Horton.
And I'm calling to arrange an appointment with Ms. McNeely.
Certainly.
What day were you thinking of?
How's Thursday?
Does she have any time available then?
Um, let me double check.
Unfortunately, she's booked solid on Thursday.
How does next Monday work for you?
Actually, I've got something scheduled on Monday.
Can't you do Tuesday?
Sure, Tuesday's perfect.
May I ask where you're calling from?
Merton Financial Advisors.
Actually, Tuesday's no good.
Well, I guess Ms. McNeely does not want to speak to any financial advisors.
Yeah, I guess she doesn't really want to invest in the stock market.
Or maybe she just gets too many phone calls from them.
If you have money, I guess you'll get phone calls from people like that.
I guess we don't have that problem, hey?
No, we don't.
Okay, let's start with our language takeaway for today.
So four words today.
The first one is available.
Available.
Available, meaning that you are not busy.
That you're free.
You're free.
You're not busy.
Let's move to our next word.
Double check.
I think we've got some examples of this phrase.
Do you have the tickets?
I think so, but let me just double check.
I thought I sent that email already, but let me double check.
Okay, so double check basically means to check something twice.
To check it again.
Check it again.
Our third word for language takeaway today is scheduled.
Scheduled.
S-C-H-E-D-U-L-D.
So, when you have something scheduled, it means that you have something planned, right?
Yeah, or booked at that time.
Booked at that time.
We've got a lunch scheduled this afternoon, don't we?
Yes, we do.
A great lunch.
Looking forward to it.
And our last word for today is booked solid.
Booked solid.
B-O-O-K-E-D.
So, we have some great words for today.
We have a great word for today.
We have a great phrase for today, which is booked solid.
So, we have some great examples on how you can use this great phrase, booked solid, and
you can understand what it means.
I can't get a hotel room.
They're booked solid until after the New Year.
I'm sorry, there are no seats available on this flight.
I'm booked solid over the Christmas holidays.
Sorry, I can't meet with you today.
I'm booked solid.
So, booked solid basically is?
You have no free time, no available time.
So, you've got appointments scheduled all day.
All day, great.
So, with this in mind, now we can listen to our dialogue a second time.
This time, it's going to be slow, so we can understand a little bit better.
Hello, Fairbrook Consulting.
Yes, this is Julianne Horton, and I'm calling to arrange an appointment with Ms. McNeely.
What date were you thinking of?
No, unfortunately, she's booked solid on Thursday.
Can she do Tuesday?
Sure, Merton Financial Advisors.
Okay, so now it's a little bit more clear, and with this, we can start with putting it together.
There's some great examples in this dialogue of phrases you can use when you need to schedule an appointment, and we're going to look at those today.
In the dialogue, we heard Julianne ask about making an appointment, and she said this.
I'm calling to arrange an appointment with Ms. McNeely.
So this is a great way to schedule an appointment, to ask for some time from somebody else.
Yeah, and we have some more examples of this phrase.
Please book an appointment for next week.
Please schedule an appointment for next week.
Great, so after that, when you're scheduling an appointment, you need to suggest a day when maybe that person has time.
Yes, let's listen to what they said in the dialogue.
How's Thursday? Does she have any time available then?
You say, well, how's Thursday or how's Tuesday?
And maybe that person doesn't have time that day, so they'll say something like this.
Okay, Erica, so if I want to have a meeting with you, I would say, how's Monday sound or how's Monday?
Monday's no good. I'm busy all day.
How's Tuesday?
Sorry, Tuesday's no good either.
What about Wednesday?
Okay, Wednesday works.
All right, great.
Wednesday's perfect.
Okay, great, so we have a meeting on Wednesday.
Okay, yeah, those are some great phrases, hey, for scheduling an appointment.
Yeah, they're really good.
Okay, so now we can listen to our dialogue a third time and we're ready to understand everything that we've just talked about.
Hello, Fairbrook Consulting. How may I help you?
Certainly. What day were you thinking of?
Unfortunately, she's booked solid on Thursday. How does next Monday work for you?
Actually, I've got something scheduled on Monday. Can't you do Tuesday?
Sure, Tuesday's perfect. May I ask where you're calling from?
Oh, actually, Tuesday's no good. Sorry about that.
The language in this dialogue is really useful, isn't it, Marco?
Yeah, it's from an everyday situation. You always have to make appointments at some point.
Yes, and like we said earlier, it's language you can use when you need to talk about work with your boss, maybe.
Or when you need to do daily things, like go to the doctor.
Or even when you're planning something with your friends.
Yeah, you can use this in all those situations.
In all situations.
Great. Well, we're out of time now, but I hope you enjoyed our lesson and found it useful.
And if you have any questions or comments, please go to our website at EnglishPod.com, where we'll be there to answer everything.
Yes, we will. So, thanks for listening, guys. And until next time, goodbye.
Hello everyone, welcome back to another great lesson with us here at EnglishPod.
And today we're going out to eat.
Yes, good thing too because I'm hungry.
I know, it's almost lunchtime.
So today we're going to be talking about eating at a restaurant and giving some great recommendations
and suggestions.
Yes, we have language for describing food, for describing restaurants and for making
suggestions.
Great, so let's start with our vocabulary preview for this lesson.
We have two words today from our dialogue which you'll need to know to understand the
dialogue.
The first one that we have today is food poisoning.
Food poisoning.
So food poisoning is...
Not a good thing.
It is when you eat some bad food and that food makes you sick.
So you get food poisoning.
Okay, so food poisoning, yeah, not a good thing.
Okay, the next word.
Allergic.
So when you're allergic to something...
It makes you sick.
That one thing makes you sick.
For example, I'm allergic to seafood.
If I eat seafood, I cannot breathe.
Oh, okay, so you definitely want to stay away from fish.
Some people are allergic to nuts, like peanuts.
Or maybe milk.
Milk.
So when one type of food makes you sick, you are allergic to that food.
So with this in mind, now we can listen to our dialogue for the first time at its normal
But don't worry if you don't get everything now because...
We'll come back and teach you the important language.
Do you two have any plans for the evening?
We were thinking of checking out a restaurant in the neighborhood.
Do you have any suggestions?
I know this really nice Italian place.
The food is fantastic and the decor is beautiful.
I'd recommend giving it a try.
Actually, I'm not all that crazy about Italian food.
I'm in the mood for something a bit lighter.
In that case, I know a great little bistro.
They make a really tasty seafood platter.
The fish is outstanding.
It sounds fantastic, but I'm allergic to seafood, so...
Okay, well, let me think.
Oh, I know this great little place.
It's just a hole in the wall, but they do the most amazing sandwiches.
You could give them a try.
Ella, you took me there last time I visited and I got food poisoning, remember?
Well I'm getting hungry just thinking about all of those great restaurants.
Yeah, some really good recommendations except for food poisoning, right?
No, not so good.
Let's start with our language takeaway for this lesson.
Our first word on language takeaway is check out.
Check out.
So we have some great examples on how we can use check out in different situations and
then you can understand the meaning.
Have you been to the new cafe next door?
Yeah, I checked it out yesterday.
The food was great.
Hey, check out my new car.
I'm going to check out that new shopping mall this weekend.
So I can understand that it just means look at.
Yeah, look at or yeah or go see.
So let's go check out that new bar in town.
Yeah, okay, cool.
Next word is bistro.
Bistro.
So what's a bistro?
It's kind of complicated, but it's like a small restaurant that's not really cheap though.
Not so cheap, but not so expensive.
And it's usually French.
So yeah, small informal restaurant.
Yeah, bistro.
Okay, so our third phrase for today is not all that crazy about.
Not all that crazy about.
I'm not all that crazy about.
Okay, again, kind of a funny phrase, but we've got some examples that will help you understand
Do you want to go shopping with me tomorrow?
I'm not all that crazy about shopping.
I don't like spending money.
I'm not crazy about jazz music.
Can I change the song?
So this is just a really polite way of saying you don't like something.
But now the opposite of this would be tasty.
Tasty.
That's our fourth word, tasty.
So when something is tasty, it's good.
It's good.
Like delicious.
Delicious.
In English, we almost never say the food is delicious, but we always say it's really
tasty.
This is really tasty.
And our last phrase for language takeaway, in the mood for.
In the mood for.
Let's listen to some examples of this phrase and we'll understand the meaning a little
We always eat hamburgers for dinner.
I'm in the mood for something different.
Let's watch a movie.
How about Texas Chainsaw Massacre?
I am not in the mood for a horror movie.
So if I'm in the mood for something, I feel like doing or eating or watching.
It means you want to do that now.
I'm in the mood for.
Some great language we just looked at.
And I think it's time for us to listen to the dialogue a second time.
We were thinking of checking out a restaurant in the neighbourhood.
It sounds fantastic.
But I'm allergic to seafood, so...
Well, let me think.
You've got to give them a try.
Okay, some really great and useful phrases there.
And I know you want to talk about specifically some of these phrases.
So, today's lesson is all about making recommendations, right?
So, let's look at some useful phrases in Fluency Builder.
So, in the dialogue, we heard a great way of asking for a suggestion.
So, that's how you would ask for a suggestion.
Or you can say something else like, do you have any ideas?
Yeah, or you might say, do you have any thoughts?
Okay, so that's asking for suggestions.
In response to this, you can say something like this.
We also heard another phrase that we use for giving suggestions.
So, these two phrases are great.
I'd recommend or you've got to give them a try.
Great ways of suggesting.
Now, what's really important here is the pronunciation of these words, right?
You'll notice that we don't say I would recommend.
We use the contraction I'd.
I'd.
I'd recommend.
Similarly, in the phrase, you have got to, we shorten that to say, you gotta.
You gotta.
You gotta give them a try.
You know what, guys?
If you can shorten your phrases like this, if you can push the sounds together, you'll
sound a lot more natural, hey?
And also, you'll be able to understand because in movies or in shows, they will never say,
you have got to give them a try.
So, if you can do it in this form, you'll understand what they mean.
Well, why don't we listen to the dialogue a third time and you'll hear some of these
contractions in the dialogue.
Okay, great dialogue.
And Erica, I know that you have some food poisoning stories for us.
Well, I don't know about stories, but I've definitely had food poisoning before.
One of the worst times that I ever had food poisoning was when I was traveling in Morocco.
I had some really amazing orange juice, really fresh, squeezed that day in the morning.
And then I got on a bus.
I think you can see where this is going.
Yeah, so I was on the bus and then I started to feel really sick.
And I was just hoping and hoping and hoping that the bus ride would be over soon.
But unfortunately, it wasn't.
All I can say is that I was sick.
All I can say is that I was pretty sick and really, really unhappy.
Yeah, I bet.
Well, that's very strange that you got sick from orange juice, huh?
Well, yeah, maybe it was with some dirty water or something like that.
It was just, it was a terrible situation.
Yeah, it's always complicated when you're traveling to other countries.
It could be the water.
It could be the way they prepare things.
Well, guys, I hope that you don't get food poisoning.
And if you have any food poisoning stories, it would be great for you to share them.
Yes, at our website, EnglishPod.com.
And we'll see you there to answer all your questions and comments.
But now we have to go.
Okay, guys, thanks for listening.
We'll see you there.
Hello English learners and welcome to another great lesson with us here at EnglishPod.
And today we're bringing you a great upper intermediate lesson.
We're going to talk about a topic that's been in the news recently and this topic is...
The bird flu.
So can you tell us what the bird flu really is?
Basically the story is a lot of chickens and birds keep getting this disease and they've
managed to pass this disease to humans.
And the fear is that humans will start to pass this disease to each other and a huge,
huge number of people in the world could get really sick.
So it sounds scary.
Well, it may be a little bit scary, but we do have some interesting language.
We've got language to talk about a disease and language that you might use in a planning
meeting at work.
So let's start by looking at our vocabulary preview for this dialogue.
The first word on our vocabulary preview today is contingency plan.
Contingency plan.
So a contingency plan is a...
A plan that you make to prepare for an emergency.
So like a backup plan.
And our last word for the vocabulary preview today is pandemic.
Pandemic.
So a pandemic is something scary.
Well, yes.
It's an event where a disease affects a lot of people.
Like we're talking millions of people.
And it spreads very quickly and it goes international.
So a disease that spreads very fast and goes everywhere.
So we're ready to listen to our dialogue.
We're going to be at a business meeting where people are talking about a contingency plan.
Well, right.
Let's move to our next order of business.
As many of you are aware, in recent weeks there has been a lot of media coverage surrounding
this bird flu issue.
And it's come to my attention that our company lacks any sort of bird flu contingency plan.
Basically, we need to come up with a clear plan.
We need to outline specific actions that our company can take to maintain critical business
functions in case a pandemic strikes.
So what I'd like to do is first appoint someone to look after drafting our plan.
Ralph, I'd like you to head up this project.
No problem.
What issues do you want me to consider?
There are a few points we need to be thinking about.
First, I'll need you to analyse our numbers and figure out what kind of financial impact
an outbreak might have.
You'll also need to think about how we can avoid any of our employees getting infected.
Think of ways to reduce employee-customer contact.
Perhaps some IT solutions that will allow our people to work from home.
I guess you'll need me to forecast employee absences as well, right?
And I'll think about the impact this will have on our clients.
Hey, what about vaccines?
Should we be thinking about getting vaccines for our employees?
So I'll leave this to you and we'll review the draft plan in two weeks.
Does anyone want to order some KFC for lunch?
Alright what an ironic meeting.
They are talking about the bird flu and they are going to have chicken.
Yes, after sneezing all over.
Yeah, I guess now we could take a look at our language takeaway for this dialogue.
We heard a lot of really useful language in this dialogue and right now we're going to
look at four different words from the dialogue.
The first one is critical.
Critical.
We've got some examples of this word that will help us to understand the meaning.
It's absolutely critical that we increase our sales.
If not, the company will go bankrupt.
We have a critical shortage of food.
If we don't get help, people will die.
This is a critical step in the process.
You can't make a mistake here.
So when something's critical, it's basically really important, really urgent.
Okay, great word.
The next word we have is outbreak.
Outbreak.
An outbreak.
So an outbreak is a sudden start of a disease, right?
Can I say, oh, I got an outbreak of flu.
Can outbreak describe one person?
No, an outbreak means that it's infecting a lot of people.
Not only one person.
So that we could say there was an outbreak of the flu at the office.
Which there was.
A lot of people got sick here with the flu.
Why don't you tell us about our third word?
Our third word is forecast.
Forecast.
So to forecast basically means to predict.
For example, you talk about the weather forecast.
And the last word for our language takeaway is vaccines.
Vaccines.
So vaccines are something we all had when we were children.
They are injections that you get to prevent you from getting sick later.
So an injection of medicine from your doctor so that you don't get a disease in the future.
When we are small, we get polio vaccine.
Or measles vaccine.
Measles.
A lot of common diseases.
So that's all for language takeaway.
Some great language related to health and disease.
But we also heard some great business related words in this dialogue.
There's a lot of words that you can use in a planning meeting.
So let's look at those now in Fluency Builder.
In today's Fluency Builder, we're going to look at four useful phrases.
Now this first phrase you can use when you want to change the subject at a meeting.
Let's listen to what they said in the dialogue.
So let's move to our next order of business.
It's a great way of saying let's move on.
Let's pass to the next topic.
Speaking of passing to the next topic, we heard another really interesting phrase in
the dialogue.
We need to come up with a clear plan.
We need to think of a clear plan.
We need to come up with.
Our third phrase we heard in the dialogue is this.
I'd like you to head up this project.
So this phrase head up.
It means I'd like you to lead or take care of this project.
And the last phrase for fluency builder you can use when you want to give someone the
responsibility of a job.
We heard this.
So I'll leave this to you.
This is you take charge.
I'll leave this to you.
So great way of delegating a responsibility.
And so we're going to leave you to listen to our dialogue a last time and be sure to
pick up all the great vocabulary that we just talked about.
Well right.
As many of you are aware in recent weeks there has been a lot of media coverage surrounding
Basically we need to come up with a clear plan.
Ralph I'd like you to head up this project.
Sure no problem.
What issues do you want me to consider.
Well let's see.
First I'll need you to analyze our numbers and figure out what kind of financial impact
You also need to think about how we can avoid any of our employees getting infected.
Think of ways to reduce employee customer contact.
I guess you'll need me to forecast employee absences as well right.
Hey what about vaccines.
Should we be thinking about getting vaccines for our employees.
So I'll leave this to you and well we'll review the draft plan in two weeks.
Does anyone want to order some KFC for lunch.
Okay great.
So this contingency plan idea is really interesting right.
It makes sense for a company to prepare in case there is an outbreak of bird flu.
I mean they need to maintain their critical business functions even if all the employees
are sick.
Hey right.
I guess that's really important and you have to forecast all these possibilities like people
are going to be away from the office or even forecast less sales etc.
The interesting thing is that businesses that may not actually be involved in food production
or raising chickens or something like that are making these contingency plans.
I find that really fascinating.
So it seems there is a lot of fear out there about the possibility of a pandemic.
We're going to come out with a vaccine so we don't have to worry about these things.
But until then we'll have to create contingency plans.
Okay guys we're out of time today and I hope you enjoyed our lesson and found all these
words and phrases really useful and you can apply them in real life.
All right guys thanks for listening and be sure to check out our website EnglishPod.com
where you can leave all your questions and comments.
Marco and I are always around to answer your questions.
So until then it's bye.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year, Marco.
It's December 31st and we are on New Year's Eve.
And since it's New Year's Eve, we're talking about New Year's resolutions.
In many places, it's very common to make a promise for the New Year, something that you
will change.
A promise to yourself.
To yourself.
To change something.
And that's what our dialogue is about today.
So why don't we take a look at our vocabulary preview for this lesson.
On vocabulary preview today, we only have one word.
Eating habits.
So what are eating habits?
The regular way you eat.
So if you eat healthy or if you eat lots of unhealthy food.
Or even maybe what time you eat, right?
If you eat every day a certain time.
So we're ready to listen to our dialogue today and it's going to be a little bit fast, but
don't worry about it.
We'll come back and explain all of the key vocabulary after.
So did I tell you about my New Year's resolution?
I've decided to go on a diet.
And you're going to completely transform your eating habits, right?
I'm going to cut out all the junk I eat.
No more chips.
No more soda.
No more fried food.
I've heard this one before.
But this time, I'm going to stick to it.
I really mean it.
Trust me, Carol.
I'm going to be a new man in one year's time.
Well, I guess we'll just have to wait and see.
Thanks, honey.
That was a great meal.
I'm stuffed.
Do we have any chips left?
So Marco, do you think this guy will be successful in changing his eating habits?
Well, I guess he'll never change, but this gives us a great opportunity to look at some
great vocabulary in this lesson in Language Takeaway.
Our first word on Language Takeaway is junk.
Junk.
So junk comes from junk food.
Unhealthy food.
Like cheese, chips.
Hamburgers.
All that junk.
Our second word for Language Takeaway, transform.
Transform.
Meaning?
To change.
Change.
So this guy is going to transform his eating habits.
He's going to change his eating habits.
Our third word is...
Stuffed.
So we have some great examples on how we can use stuffed and you'll get the meaning from
it.
Have one more piece of cake.
Oh, I can't.
Oh, I ate way too much.
The feeling you get if you eat too much food.
I'm full.
So these are some great words that you can use talking about food.
And eating habits.
And now we can listen to our dialogue a second time and this time, like always, it's going
to be slow.
I'm going to cut out all that junk I eat.
But this time I'm going to stick to it.
There's a lot of great language in this dialogue, isn't there?
Yeah, a lot of great language that we can take a look at with our Fluency Builder.
The first phrase we have for you is...
Stick to it.
We've got some examples of how this phrase is used.
Example 1.
Quitting smoking is so hard.
It's good for you.
Example 2.
I can't solve this math problem.
I'm sure you'll get it.
So stick to it, right?
Basically means keep doing it.
Even though English learning can be hard...
You should stick to it.
Okay, let's look at our second phrase for Fluency Builder.
I mean it.
Mean it.
So this is a great way of saying...
I'm serious.
I'm not joking.
I'm not joking, right?
And our final phrase in Fluency Builder.
Cut out.
Again, we've got some examples of this phrase as native speakers use it.
You have to cut out the salt from your diet.
No more french fries.
No more popcorn.
It's time for me to focus on my work.
I'm going to cut out everything else from my life.
Okay, so cut out means...
To remove.
Completely remove.
Take it away.
Okay, some great language, some great phrases in our dialogue today.
So why don't we listen to it a third time and we'll come back in a little bit.
Trust me, Carol, I'm going to be a new man in one year's time.
Okay so New Year's resolutions, a really common and popular thing in North America.
It's tradition to make a promise to yourself on New Year's and stick to it throughout the
whole year.
But the funny thing is that very few people actually stick to their New Year's resolution.
The most common ones are I'm going to quit smoking.
That never happens.
I'm going to go on a diet.
Like this guy.
I'm going to quit drinking.
That almost never happens either.
On New Year's Eve, you start drinking.
I mean, it's a bad time.
And another really common one is I'm going to join a gym.
That's why gym membership sales are so high in January.
Everyone joins a gym in January.
But come February, very few people in the gym.
So Marco, do you have a New Year's resolution for this year?
Yes, I have a New Year's resolution and I resolve to continue bringing everyone some
great lessons.
Oh, that's so good.
And I think I can stick to that one.
Well, I do hope that you do stick to that one, Marco.
We will.
But today we're out of time.
So please go to our website and leave all your questions and comments at EnglishPod.com.
And we'll see you there.
But until then, it's goodbye.
Hello, everyone.
Welcome to EnglishPod.
Today I'm here with Erika.
Hi, Marco.
And we're bringing you a great elementary lesson about a situation at an office.
Today we're going to learn some phrases for asking for time off.
Asking for time off.
Or asking for leave.
Asking for leave.
So we're going to give you some great phrases and vocabulary for when you want to ask for
leave.
So let's just listen to our dialogue today.
We're at an office where Liv wants some time off.
Mr. McKenna, do you have a second?
I need to talk to you about something.
Liv, what can I do for you?
Well, I was just wondering.
You see, I know I've used up all my vacation days this year, but my sister's getting married
and the wedding is overseas and, well...
You want to take some time off.
Is that right?
Well, sir, I was just hoping I might be able to take some unpaid leave this year.
What dates are you planning on taking off?
I'll need at least two months' notice so that I can plan for your absence.
I was thinking of taking off from September 1st until the 30th.
Would you be okay with that?
Well, I guess so.
Well, it sounds like the boss wasn't too happy about Liv's request.
Well, she wanted to take off for 30 days, so...
I guess that is a long time.
That is a long time.
I wish I could do that.
Okay, we have some great words for you today, so let's start with our language takeaway.
Four words on our language takeaway today.
Erika, why don't you tell us the first one?
The first word is vacation days.
Vacation days.
So what are vacation days?
Basically, it's the number of personal leave days.
So the number of days that you can take to go on vacation.
How many vacation days do you have?
Yeah, I think I have not so many.
I only have 10 vacation days.
10 vacation...
Well, in some countries, 10 vacation days is normal.
In another, I guess it's 10, 15, even 20, I've heard.
Well...
We can't take too many vacation days or else we won't make any more podcasts.
Why don't we look at our second word?
Overseas.
When you travel overseas, you travel over the ocean.
Over the ocean to another country.
Okay, overseas.
Okay, and our third word for language takeaway, unpaid leave.
Unpaid leave.
So this is time off without pay.
Without pay.
Simple.
And our last word, notice.
Notice.
So we have some great examples on how we use notice and from these examples, I'm sure
you'll be able to understand exactly what they mean.
If you want to quit your job, make sure you give enough notice.
You'll need to tell us four weeks in advance.
You didn't give me enough notice about this project.
I didn't have enough time to finish it.
So when you give someone notice, you give them information in advance.
In advance, right.
So if I want to take time off, I need to give my boss notice, advance information.
Right, 15 day notice or a 20 day notice, etc.
Great, so that's our language takeaway for today.
Now we are ready to listen to our dialogue a second time and this time it's going to
be really slow.
Sure, Liv, what can I do for you?
Well, I was just wondering, you see, I know I've used up all my vacation days this year,
but my sister is getting married and the wedding is overseas and well...
You want to take some time off, is that right?
Well, sir, I was just hoping that I might be able to take some unpaid leave this year.
I'll need at least two months notice so that I can plan for your absence.
I was thinking of taking off from September 1st until the 30th, would you be okay with
that?
I guess so.
A lot of non-native English speakers sometimes feel quite nervous about asking their boss
for time off, hey?
Yeah, I guess it's a kind of a difficult subject.
Yeah, but today we're going to teach you some great phrases that you can use next time you
need to ask for some time off.
Great, so why don't we take a look at putting it together?
Okay, so on putting it together today, we're going to talk about some great phrases that
you can use when approaching your boss.
Yes, we heard Liv say this.
Do you have a second?
This is a nice way to make sure your boss isn't busy when you want to ask him something.
Right, right, right, but we could also say this in two different ways.
Do you have a minute?
I want to ask you something.
Do you have a sec?
I need to talk to you.
A great way to approach your boss.
Yeah, I love this phrase, do you have a sec?
Yeah, do you have a sec?
It's really natural.
Okay, so you've asked your boss for leave and you want to make sure that he agrees with
Yes, and this is how Liv did it.
This is a great pattern, and we've got two other examples of how you can use it.
Are you alright with that?
Will you be okay with this?
I'm fine with that.
Okay, great examples, great patterns, really useful language.
Okay, so now let's listen to our dialogue a third time.
but my sister's getting married and the wedding is over season, well...
I really noticed how Liv in this dialogue used a lot of really polite language, hey?
Yeah, I guess when you're talking to your boss, you really have to be respectful and
you have to use really polite language.
What sort of things did she do to make herself seem more polite?
Well, she said a couple of interesting phrases, for example, well, I was just wondering.
Yeah, I was just wondering.
Right, it's like, well, she's kind of setting up to ask for a favor or something.
And she also used another phrase that I thought was interesting.
Yeah, she also said, I was just hoping that.
Right, I was just hoping that maybe I could take some time off.
Yeah, again, that sort of doesn't sound too strong, so it seems a bit more polite.
Yeah, because if she said, well, I want to take some time off, that's too strong.
Yeah, so I was just hoping.
And then, well, the boss says, okay, well, when do you want to leave?
And she says, well, I was thinking of, right?
I was thinking of.
Again, if she would have said, I want to.
Too strong, right?
In English, sometimes we are careful to not be too direct when we're asking for something,
Right, yeah.
Because if you're too direct, you sound a little bit impolite.
Yeah, you sound rude.
Okay, so great tips and great things to take into consideration the next time you're talking
into your boss.
All right, guys, we're out of time, but thanks for listening and be sure to check out our
website EnglishPod.com.
Right, where you can leave all your questions and comments and we'll be there to answer
But I guess until then, it's goodbye.
Hello, English learners.
Welcome back to EnglishPod.
And today we're bringing you the sequel of I'm Sorry I Love You.
Part two.
I guess a lot of our listeners enjoyed the first part.
And since it was such a romantic dialogue and hit, we're bringing part two.
So it's even more romantic and I'm sure everyone is going to find some great and useful language
in it.
And it's the language that we use to talk about dates.
A date, yeah.
So useful language for when you're going on a date.
Well, before we look at this date language, let's listen to the dialogue for the first
time.
I'm so relieved that your ankle wasn't broken.
I feel just awful about this whole thing.
I want to make it up to you.
Let me take you out to dinner tonight, my treat.
Oh, that sounds great.
I'd love to.
Here's my address.
Pick me up at eight.
Thank you for such a lovely evening.
The food was amazing and I had a great time.
You look so beautiful tonight.
I wish this night would never end.
There's something that I have to tell you.
But what is it?
I woke up today thinking that this would be just like any other day.
But I was wrong.
A twist of fate brought us together.
I crashed into your life and you into mine.
And this may sound crazy, but I'm falling in love with you, Veronica.
Wow, such a romantic dialogue.
It really sounds like they're falling in love.
Yeah, it's a really romantic thing that's going on right now, but there were some really
useful words here, so why don't we take a look at language takeaway?
Today we have three words for language takeaway.
And the first one is relieved.
Relieved.
So, we have some great examples on how we use relieved and I'm really sure you can understand
the meaning from the sentences.
They were relieved to hear that the company would not be making any layoffs.
I'm so relieved to hear your voice.
I was worried something happened to you.
I guess relieved is like a happy or relaxed feeling that you get if you avoid something
bad, right?
I'm so relieved that didn't happen.
Now for our second word, pick me up.
Pick me up.
So when you ask someone to pick you up, you're saying basically...
Come and get me.
Okay, so let's give a couple of examples.
My husband was supposed to pick me up from work yesterday, but he forgot.
Does that really happen?
All right, we'll have a talk with him.
Or we could also say, oh, I need to hurry up.
The taxi will pick me up at seven.
So come and get me.
And our final word in today's language takeaway is...
Ordinary.
So, ordinary is a normal word.
Yes, meaning?
It's normal.
Nothing uncommon about it.
So you can have like an ordinary person.
An ordinary day.
Ordinary life.
Nothing exciting about it.
What else is ordinary?
Ordinary podcast.
An ordinary podcast, which English pod is not.
Is not.
So ordinary.
Okay, great words.
And I guess now we can listen to our dialogue a second time.
This time it'll be a little bit slower, and this will help you to understand the language
more clearly.
Let me take you out to dinner tonight.
My treat.
That sounds great.
Here is my address.
Pick me up at eight?
The food was amazing, and I had a great time.
There's something I have to tell you.
I woke up today thinking this would be just like any other ordinary day, but I was wrong.
I crashed into your life and you into mine, and this may sound crazy, but I'm falling
in love with you, Veronica.
Okay, so we looked at some great vocabulary, and now we can look at some great phrases,
so let's start with Fluency Builder.
On Fluency Builder today we have three great phrases, so why don't we just start with the
Yeah, the first one we heard at the beginning of the dialogue.
Make it up to you.
Okay, so we have some great examples on how we use make it up, so let's listen.
I'm sorry I forgot your birthday.
How can I make it up to you?
I feel terrible for calling your mother fat.
I want to make it up to her, so I got her these flowers.
John forgot my anniversary again.
He's going to have to make it up to me.
We can see from the examples that when you use the phrase make it up to you, you're kind
of saying you want to balance something bad you did with some good action, right?
Right, so if you call your mother-in-law fat.
You better buy her at least some flowers or a card or something.
To make it up, right?
So the bad action was?
Calling her fat.
And the balancing good action was the flowers.
I don't think flowers will be enough though.
Looks like a doomed marriage.
Okay, our second phrase.
So we use this phrase when we want to say I'll invite you, I'll pay for you.
I'll pay.
Right, so I can say, hey, let's go get some beers.
It's my treat.
Oh, thanks, Marco.
So I'm paying, right?
And our last phrase for fluency builder.
A twist of fate.
So Erica, what is a twist of fate?
A twist of fate is an unplanned event that has a big impact on your future or your life.
Marco, can you give us an example of a twist of fate?
All right, for example.
Okay, you're supposed to catch a flight to another country, all right?
But you're late, so you miss your flight.
And that flight crashes.
Right, so that's a twist of fate.
So yeah, it's like fate, it's like destiny.
You weren't supposed to be on that flight.
Okay, so a twist of fate.
On a happier note, let's listen to the dialogue a third time.
I woke up today thinking that this would be just like any other day, but I was wrong.
The twist of fate brought us together.
I crashed into your life and you into mine and this may sound crazy, but I'm falling
Okay so we're back.
Erika, I know you have a story of a twist of fate in your life.
Recently, actually, this happened.
I went to this party and at the party there was a contest, like sort of a lottery.
You could buy some tickets and win a prize and the prize was a week-long vacation.
So I went with some friends of mine and they were tired so they left early and they gave
me their tickets.
And guess what happened?
What happened?
We won.
We won the week-long vacation.
Yeah, it was amazing.
So that was a really lucky twist of fate for me.
A lucky twist of fate.
That's a good story.
I'm sure it wasn't that good of a twist of fate for your friends.
Yeah, but they were very generous and let me have the prize anyway.
Well, we want to hear your stories of maybe some type of twist of fate that you've had.
Maybe love stories, maybe tragic stories, any story.
So be sure to leave your questions and comments and your stories at our website, EnglishPod.com
and where you can also find us to answer any questions or doubts.
Yes, that's right.
So I guess until then, it's goodbye.
We're bringing you an advanced lesson today.
An advanced lesson where we talk about investing in emerging markets.
So it's kind of a business topic.
It's kind of a world topic as well.
And it's pretty difficult.
It is really hard.
So if you're listening and you don't understand everything, please don't get discouraged.
Don't worry about it because we're here to learn.
And we're here to help you.
So let's get started with this.
I'm really excited about this lesson.
Well, Marco, maybe you can tell us a little bit.
What is an emerging market?
An emerging market is a market that is starting to develop.
And it's growing rapidly.
So you can maybe give some examples of emerging market.
Well, for example, China is an emerging market.
In the last years, it's been growing rapidly.
More and more people are moving to the middle class and have money to spend.
So China is like a really great example of an emerging market.
Well, with that, let's listen to the dialogue for the first time.
Dad, I'd like to borrow some money.
Sure, Johnny.
How much do you need?
Five bucks?
Come on, Dad.
I need $30,000.
I want to get into the market.
You know, I'm tired of hearing all this news about the economic downturn, the inevitable
recession, people stuffing their money in their mattresses.
I look at this as an opportunity.
This is a chance for me to get a jumpstart on building my nest egg.
I don't know about that.
With all the uncertainty in the markets right now, it would be a very unwise decision to
invest.
I don't know if you're aware, son, but there has been a lot of turmoil in the markets recently.
There have already been half a million layoffs in the last few months, and we have no idea
how the proposed stimulus package will impact upon the economy.
There's just too much instability.
I just wouldn't feel comfortable investing in this climate.
But look at it this way.
Every challenge is an opportunity.
And anyway, I'm not talking about investing in the domestic market.
There are emerging markets that promise great returns.
Look at China, for example.
They have 1.4 billion people, half a billion of whom have recently entered the middle class.
Here alone, the aggregate demand for consumer goods represents an amazing wealth-generating
opportunity.
Oh, come on, son, you're looking at this too naively.
The Chinese market has exhibited a great deal of instability, and their currency has been
devalued by almost a whole percentage point.
Fine, then.
If that's the way you feel, so be it.
But you're losing out on a great opportunity here.
I'm going to hit up mom for the cash.
Well, it sounds like the dad has missed out on a really big investment opportunity, hey?
Yeah, and his son is pretty smart.
Pretty smart little boy.
Okay, so we have some great words that we want to look at here.
Why don't we start with the first one, turmoil.
Turmoil.
So we have some great examples of how turmoil is used in different sentences.
Example one, with a civil war, a famine, and inflation, the country has been in turmoil
for ten years.
Example two, there's been a lot of turmoil in my life recently.
I've moved to a new city.
I've changed my job.
I broke up with my girlfriend.
Example three, the devaluation of the dollar caused a great deal of turmoil in the markets.
So turmoil is a state of...
Of uncertainty, of change, of difficult times.
A little bit of chaos.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So for example, when there's a lot of turmoil in the market, that means stock prices are
changing drastically from day to day.
Right, or the economy is in turmoil.
There's a lot of problems going on.
Yeah, uncertainty.
Uncertainty.
Okay, good word.
All right, and we also saw something really interesting in the dialogue about a proposed
stimulus package.
A proposed stimulus package.
So a proposed stimulus package is something that's going on now.
Yes, let's break this phrase down.
So we've got stimulus package.
A stimulus package, something to stimulate the economy, right?
Right, so money from the government to get the economy moving.
To get it moving, stimulus package.
Proposed.
It means that it hasn't been approved yet.
Right, it's suggested.
It's suggested, it's an idea.
So the proposed stimulus package for the US economy, for example, is $150 billion.
Right, that's $150 billion of American taxpayers' money that the government wants to pay.
Put into the economy to keep it moving.
To keep it moving, right.
So if it works or not, that's still a debate, but it's a proposed stimulus package.
Let's move to our third phrase, aggregate demand.
Aggregate demand.
So demand is pretty clear, but this word aggregate, what's that about?
Aggregate is like a combined, added.
So like China, where cities like in Shanghai or cities like Beijing, where more and more
people are accumulating wealth, the aggregate demand is increasing.
The combined demand for consumer goods is growing.
More people have more money, so they're spending more.
You know, Marco, there's a ton of excellent language in this dialogue, isn't there?
Yeah, a lot of good stuff here.
So let's listen to the dialogue one more time, but before we do, we have three words for
you that we want you to listen for.
Pay attention to these words.
Nest egg.
Inevitable.
And hit up.
Hit up.
So from the context of the dialogue, try and see if you can figure out what they mean,
but after listening to it, we'll come back and explain it anyways.
But anyway, I'm not talking about investing in the domestic market.
Oh, come on, son.
You're looking at this too naively.
If that's the way you feel, so be it, but you're losing out on a great opportunity here.
So the kid wants to invest because he wants to set up his nest egg.
So basically, he wants to get a bunch of cash together so that he can buy a house or get
married or whatever.
It's that money you need to start your life, right?
To start your life, your nest egg.
It's kind of a weird way of referring to this money, right?
I guess it is kind of funny.
And also, the little boy talked about an inevitable recession.
Yes, inevitable.
Inevitable basically means unavoidable.
So this guy thinks that the recession is unavoidable.
It's going to happen.
You know, this word inevitable, if you apply the root words, you can get a noun, an adjective,
or an adverb, right?
So here are some examples where you can see this word in action.
Jason knew he was going to get laid off, but he was trying to delay the inevitable.
As a new manager, it's inevitable that you're going to make mistakes.
Inevitably, we all die at the end of our lives.
So as you can see, the noun and adjective form are the same.
When we use it as an adverb though, we add the L-Y to it.
Inevitably.
So yeah, as you can see, we could use it in many different ways depending on what we want
to say.
Well, inevitably, we have to move on to our third word.
So he says he's going to hit up mom for the cash.
Ask his mom.
Yeah, hit up.
Yeah, this is kind of a slangy term, isn't it?
Yeah, it's more informal, a lot more slangy.
You wouldn't really use it with your boss, would you?
No, you're not going to go up to your boss and say, hey, I need to hit you up for some
cash.
So Marco, I think this word is only applying to money, right?
Well, you wouldn't go up to your boss and say, oh, I need to hit you up for some vacation
No, it's typically used like for money.
In this context.
Hit him up.
We've got some examples of the phrase hit up.
I'm going to hit up the boss for a raise.
Are you trying to hit me up for money?
I don't have any cash.
Have you tried hitting up Sophie?
She's rich.
Okay, so this is our first advanced lesson.
I hope you enjoyed it.
It is a lot more challenging, I think.
Especially because it's set in a business context, so it makes it... so we have a lot
of specific words and a lot of technical vocabulary.
Marco, you're exactly right.
And I think that our users are going to have a lot of questions about the language in this
lesson.
So I'd like to invite you guys to come onto our website at EnglishPod.com.
Basically where you can leave all your questions and comments and we'll be there to answer
Today we're bringing you part two of another great lesson that we had.
Yes, new guy in town.
The new guy in town.
Kind of a creepy story.
Yeah, and this one is also a little bit strange, a little bit weird.
Yeah, unusual outcome, unusual ending.
But it has to do a lot with invitations.
An invitation is when you ask somebody to do something with you.
A dinner invitation.
So we're going to be talking about invitations and inviting people to do things.
Oh, Arman, thank you for such a thoughtful invitation.
It's really very nice of you to invite us over for dinner.
Don't you think so, Ellen?
Oh, yes, of course.
We'd love to come over.
Can I bring anything?
No, don't worry about it.
I'll take care of everything.
I'll see you tonight.
Come with an appetite.
I know I will.
I don't want to go over to his place for dinner.
He gives me the creeps.
Why on earth did you accept?
Oh, come on, Ellen.
It'll be nice to get to know him.
Besides, he's new to the neighborhood.
He's a bit of a creep.
Ladies!
Thank you for coming.
You look delicious.
I mean beautiful.
Please come in.
Oh, Arlond, you are too kind.
How did I get myself into this?
Wow, I'm really anxious to see what happens in this dinner party.
Yeah, I guess we'll have to stay tuned and find out.
For part three.
All right, well, we have some really great vocabulary, so I guess we can start with language
All right, on language takeaway today, we have three great words.
Erika, why don't you start us off with the first one?
The first word is thoughtful.
Thoughtful.
So, when you're thoughtful, you're kind, right?
You're kind, you're considerate to other people.
You think about what the other person would like.
And you do that thing.
It's so thoughtful of you.
Our second phrase, give me the creeps.
Give me the creeps.
This is kind of a funny phrase, but I think if we listen to some examples, we'll understand
Horror movies give me the creeps.
You're giving me the creeps.
I saw this really scary clown.
It gave me the creeps.
So I can see this one means to make me feel uncomfortable.
It makes me feel like scared.
Yeah, scared.
Also, gives me the creeps.
And our last phrase for language takeaway, rope me into.
Rope me into something.
So if you rope me into something, it's...
It's like you convince me to do something that I don't really want to do.
So I roped you into lending me your car.
It was a bad idea.
That was a bad idea.
And you roped me into going out for beers after work.
Yeah, that was a great idea.
All right, so rope me into, convince.
All righty.
So I guess we could listen to our dialogue again.
This time a little bit slower and you'll be able to understand the language a little bit
Oh, Armand, thank you for such a thoughtful invitation.
It would be nice to get to know him.
Besides, he's new to the neighborhood and it would be rude to decline his invitation.
You always rope me into things like this.
Ladies, thank you for coming.
I mean, beautiful.
Come in.
Oh, Armand, you are too kind.
Well, I guess that's a lot more clear and with that, we can start putting it together
Today we've got three words and phrases that we want to show you how you can put together
and use differently.
The first one is appetite.
Appetite.
So, appetite is like a strong desire for food, right?
An appetite.
We've got some examples that show you how to use this phrase.
Dinner smells so good.
It's giving me an appetite.
You're sure eating a lot.
You must have a big appetite.
I'm getting sick.
I have a fever and I've lost my appetite.
Okay, so we saw some great examples of appetite.
You can lose your appetite.
You have a big appetite.
A small appetite.
A healthy appetite.
So, appetite just means... a desire for food.
A hunger for food.
What's our second phrase for today?
Get to know someone.
Get to know.
So when you get to know someone is you talk to them and you find out what they do.
You get more familiar with them.
More familiar, right?
For example, we can say, I got to know her in Spanish class and she's a really nice person.
Or you can say, Armand, Ellen, and Doris got to know each other at a dinner party.
Or you can say, if you get to know me, you'll see that I'm not a bad guy.
And our third phrase is, why on earth?
Why on earth?
This is like a saying.
Expression.
You can use it in a lot of different ways.
So we've got some examples for you.
Where on earth is my phone?
How on earth did you learn English in one month?
What on earth is it?
So when you ask a question with on earth, so why on earth, how on earth, what on earth,
it's like you're showing a lot of surprise.
So let's just listen to our dialogue a third time.
Come on, Ellen.
He'll be rude to decline his invitation.
You always wrote me into things like this.
Ladies.
We want to know what you think happens next.
Yes, what happens in this dialogue next.
So we want you to send us your idea of what happens next and we're going to choose the
best one.
Marco and I will choose the best continuation of the story and we'll use that in part three
of The New Guy in Town.
So you can give it any direction you want.
And of course, we'll publish the name of the author with the lesson.
I'm really anxious to see what ideas come up and how we can end this dialogue.
We've got a lot of really creative users out there.
So I'm really looking forward to this.
So be sure to send us your ideas, either a private message or you can post it on the
comment section of this lesson.
And any other questions or doubts, go to EnglishPod.com and you can leave them there.
Marco and I are always happy to answer your questions.
Okay, folks.
And today we're bringing you another great lesson about appointments.
We've got an elementary lesson about cancelling an appointment.
It's a really common situation sometimes.
You have an appointment at the doctor's or something.
Or at work.
And you have to cancel it.
So we're going to learn some great language to help you cancel appointments today.
Let's go straight to the dialogue then.
We're going to be listening as Samantha and Angela have a phone conversation.
And Angela is trying to cancel an appointment.
And it's going to be a little bit fast in the beginning.
But when we come back, we will explain all the great vocabulary.
Hello, Samantha speaking.
Hi, Samantha.
This is Angela calling.
Oh, hi, Angela.
What's up?
I'm just calling about our meeting today.
I wonder, is it possible to reschedule our appointment in the afternoon?
I have a bit of an emergency that I need to take care of.
Let me see.
It shouldn't be too much of a problem.
I hope it doesn't inconvenience you too much.
It's just this thing came up and...
Angela, you know what?
I can't make it to our meeting either.
Why don't we postpone it to tomorrow afternoon at the same time?
See you tomorrow.
Angela, look up.
See that lady over there who's trying on a red leather jacket?
Isn't that Samantha?
No wonder she told me she couldn't make it to the meeting.
I think she saw me.
Okay, we have some really interesting words that you probably listened to in this dialogue.
So let's start with language takeaway.
Today on language takeaway, we're bringing you three words.
Erica, what's the first one?
The first word is reschedule.
Reschedule.
When you reschedule an appointment, you...
Change it for another day or time.
The second word that we have is inconvenience.
Inconvenience.
So, to inconvenience someone is to...
To make things not convenient for that person.
So, to make things a little bit difficult or to make things a little bit...
Uncomfortable.
And our third word is...
Postpone.
We have some examples of the word postpone that will help you to understand its meaning
a little bit better.
Since Robert is late again, we have to postpone the meeting.
I'm sorry, Simon, but your vacation has been postponed until next month.
Example 3.
Unfortunately, the flight will be postponed.
Okay, so basically postpone is to delay.
Make it at a later time.
At a later time.
Okay, some great words there and we can listen to our dialogue a second time at a slower
It's just this thing came up and…
Angela, Angela, look up.
Alright, so in this dialogue, we had some really great phrases that we should look at
in Fluency Builder.
We have three phrases for you today in Fluency Builder, and the first one is so common.
It's a great phrase.
So, this is a very common way of saying hi.
Right, and now the interesting thing is that many people don't know how to answer this phrase.
Yes, I see this all the time with my students.
So, if you say what's up, you should say…
Not much.
Nothing.
So, what's up?
Alright, so the next time someone tells you what's up, now you know what to answer.
Okay, our second phrase is can't make it.
Can't make it.
I can't make it.
We use this phrase when we want to say I cannot attend.
I cannot make it.
Yeah, I can't come.
Right, so if you're having a party today, I say, oh, I'm sorry, I can't make it.
It means I can't go.
Maybe one more example.
So, Marco, we've got a meeting today at three o'clock.
I'm recording today.
So, can't make it.
Our last word for fluency builder, this thing came up.
This thing came up.
This is a great way of giving an excuse for why you can't make it to an event.
So, I can't make it today because this thing came up.
Like, something…
Something happened.
Let's listen to a few examples of this phrase so we can see how it's used in the wild.
I'm sorry that I'm late, this thing came up at work and I had to stay to take care of it.
Something came up.
Sorry I missed the meeting.
Okay, great example and I guess it's perfectly clear now.
So, let's listen to our dialogue a third time and now we're ready to understand everything.
So, Erica, have you ever cancelled an appointment like this under false pretenses?
So, for a fake reason?
For a fake reason to go shopping?
I may not have told my boss so I can't make it to a meeting because this thing came up
and then I really was going shopping.
I've never done that.
But how about you, Marco?
Well, you know, in Ecuador, soccer is a really big thing.
So, when we were playing in the World Cup, Ecuador was playing and…
Not you, but…
Well, no, like the Ecuadorian soccer team.
I cancelled an appointment because I was going to go watch the game.
A business appointment.
Well, I guess that's okay.
Yeah, I mean, it was like the first time we were ever in the World Cup and, you know,
my boss didn't really put up much of a fight because I guess he also wanted to go watch the game.
So, very similar to the events in this dialogue.
Very similar.
I guess that's kind of the inspiration behind it.
I hope you found some of these phrases helpful and useful.
And remember, if you have any questions about anything you heard in today's lesson,
please visit our website at EnglishPod.com.
There you'll be able to find more resources and also a large community to interact with.
Yes, including me and Marco.
So, we'll see you there.
Until then, it's…
Hello English learners, welcome back to another great lesson with EnglishPod.
And today we're bringing you another great lesson about being at the bank.
We've got an intermediate lesson for you today with lots of great language to help you open
a bank account.
Okay, so let's look at our vocabulary preview today.
Two words today.
The first one is checking account.
A checking account.
Checking account.
So what is a checking account?
Well, it's a type of bank account that lets you do your day-to-day or daily banking.
So it's the normal bank account that you use to go shopping, that you use to pay your bills.
Yep, exactly.
The opposite, and our second word is...
Savings account.
A savings account.
So a savings account is to...
It's a bank account where you save your money.
To save money, right?
So usually you don't touch the money in this account.
Yeah, usually it stays in there.
So usually banks will have these two types of accounts.
Checking and savings.
Let's listen to our dialogue a first time now.
Well, today we're at a bank and we're going to listen as a man is opening a bank account.
The dialogue is going to be spoken at a normal speed, so it might be a little bit fast.
But don't worry about it because we'll come back and explain everything.
Next, please.
May I help you, sir?
Yes, I'd like to open a bank account.
I can help you with that.
What type of account would you like to open?
A checking or a saving account?
What features do they offer?
Well, if you just take a look here, see, with our checking account, you can have unlimited
daily transactions for a small monthly fee, and our savings account has a higher interest
rate, but you must carry a minimum balance of $10,000.
Well, I think I'm more interested in a checking account.
I'd like to have easy access to my money.
All right, then.
With this checking account, you'll be issued a debit card and a checkbook.
Will you require overdraft protection?
There is an extra fee for that.
No, that won't be necessary.
In that case, I'll get you to fill out this paperwork.
I'll need your social insurance number and two pieces of government ID.
If you could just sign here, and here, and here, we'll be all set.
Would you like to make a deposit today?
Yes, I'd like to deposit $1 billion.
$1 billion!
All right, $1 billion.
That's a lot of money.
That's a weird laugh.
Okay, let's look at language takeaway today.
Today we've got four words for you in language takeaway, all about money and banking.
Money and banking.
The first one that we have today is transaction.
Transaction.
A transaction.
So we have some great examples that will help you understand what a transaction is, so let's
listen.
I need a record of my most recent bank transactions.
There is no fee for bank transactions done online.
Okay, we've deposited your money.
Would you like to make another transaction today?
So basically I can understand that a transaction is moving money around in your bank account.
Right, it's taking your money from your bank account and putting it in another account
or just taking it to spend, whatever.
That's a transaction.
Or even putting money into your bank account.
That's also a transaction.
Our second word, balance.
Balance.
So your account balance is how much money you have.
An account balance.
My account balance is $2 right now, I think.
That's a bit of a problem.
Good thing payday is three days away.
Yeah, oh my God.
Okay, our third word, overdraft.
Overdraft.
So, this really comes in handy, right?
To overdraft, can you tell us a little bit about it?
Let's say in my bank account, I have $500, but I spend $600.
So, I have an overdraft in my account, meaning I owe the bank $100.
It's also commonly referred to as a negative balance.
Negative balance.
Like me.
Very soon, I will have a negative balance.
Okay, I think this one is a little bit tricky to understand.
So let's listen to a couple of examples of how we use this word.
The maximum overdraft on my account is only $5,000.
I'm sorry, sir, but you've exceeded your maximum overdraft limit.
I cannot give you any more money.
Oh no, I have to pay $1,500 in overdraft fees.
Now we can take a look at our last word, debit card.
Debit card.
D-E-B-I-T, card.
So, a debit card is issued by the bank.
And used to...
To get money out of an ATM.
From an ATM machine, right?
A debit card.
Not to be confused with a credit card.
Not the same thing.
So, now we could listen to our dialogue a second time at a slower speed.
So now we can...
We can hear all of the great language you just talked about.
Next please.
A checking or a savings account?
Well, if you just look here...
See, with our checking account, you can have unlimited daily transactions for a small monthly
fee.
And our savings account has a higher interest rate.
But you must carry a minimum balance of $10,000.
I like to have easy access to my money.
All right then.
With this checking account, you'll be issued with a debit card and a checkbook.
If you could just sign here and here and here, we'll be all set.
We heard some interesting phrases of how to tell somebody to do something in a polite
Let's start with Fluency Builder and explain these words.
The bank teller asked this man to do a number of things in order to open his bank account
and she used some great expressions.
Let's listen to how she asked the man to do some things in a polite way.
I'll get you to fill out this paperwork.
I'll need your social insurance number.
If you could just sign here.
The first thing she said is, I'll get you to fill out this paperwork.
I'll get you to.
It's just a way of saying, can you please fill this out?
I'll do this, but in a different way.
More polite.
It's pretty polite.
Then she also said, I'll need your social insurance number.
I'll need your.
Again, a polite way of saying.
Give me your social insurance number.
Give me your social insurance.
And the last thing she said, and this is really polite.
If you could just.
If you could just wait a moment, I'll be with you.
If you could just send me an email with your bank account number.
Very polite way of asking for something.
Well, some great language in today's cast.
Let's listen to the dialogue one last time and we'll catch all of this wonderful language.
Oh, yes.
I'd like to open a bank account.
daily transactions for a small monthly fee.
And our savings account has a higher interest rate, but you must carry a minimum balance
of $10,000.
Okay, so an interesting thing here, not many countries use checks.
The checkbook or a check?
Yeah, it tends to be more of an American thing, don't you think?
It is, it is.
I think it is.
For those of you who aren't sure what a check is, it's basically a piece of paper that you
just sign your name and...
Yeah, you write the amount of money and then you sign your name, right?
Right, and then you give that to the person, that person can take it to the bank and get
money in exchange for it.
It's not very common in other countries.
No, but from what I know, every single American has a checkbook and uses it pretty regularly.
For example, you pay your phone bill or your electric bill, you just put a check in the
mailbox and it's paid.
And it's done.
It's an interesting thing.
But also, sometimes in other countries, people's salaries are paid through checks.
Paycheck.
I see where that word comes from.
But for example, here in China, it's not very common, right?
I've never seen a check here.
Me neither.
What about in your countries?
We'd like to know how the banking system works.
Yes, come to our website at EnglishPod.com and tell us all about it.
Yes, and you can also leave your questions and comments on our website and we'll be there
to answer it.
Yeah, Marco and I love answering your questions, so please visit us.
All right, but until then, it's goodbye.
Hello English learners, welcome back to EnglishPod.
And today we have another great elementary lesson for you all.
That's right, we've got a lesson for all you sports fans out there.
Right, we're doing a podcast on sports today.
We're starting off with basketball.
So we've got lots of language about basketball and sports in this lesson today.
Great, so let's take a look at our vocabulary preview.
Two words for you today.
The first one is foul.
Foul.
A foul.
Basically, it's an action in a game that is not allowed.
Right, so if you're playing basketball and you kick the other player.
That's a foul.
That's a pretty big foul.
Yeah, if you're playing soccer and you pick up the ball.
That's also a foul.
Our second word is ref.
Ref, R-E-F.
Also known as a referee.
So a referee is.
Basically, like the judge of a game.
The judge of the game.
So he's the one that will.
Say that was a foul.
That was a foul, exactly.
Ref, also known as referee.
Okay, so two great words.
We're gonna hear them in our dialogue and we're going to be listening to two guys who
are watching a basketball game on TV.
Hey, has the game started yet?
Yeah, about five minutes ago.
Oh, who's winning?
Bulls, of course.
That wasn't a foul.
Oh, come on, ref.
Don't worry.
Shaq always screws up free throws.
You were right.
He didn't make the shot.
Yeah, that was a great shot.
Three pointer, yeah.
Did you see that?
He traveled to the ref.
Didn't even call it.
This ref needs glasses.
Hey, ref, open your eyes.
Can't believe you didn't see that.
Okay, end of the first quarter.
All right, I'm going to make a beer run.
All right, a really common situation whenever you're watching games with friends, right?
You need to get a beer.
Let's take a look at language takeaway.
Okay, let's take a look at our first word on language takeaway.
Free throw.
This one's a bit hard to say, isn't it?
It's a little bit hard to explain, but if you're playing basketball and if someone fouls
you, you get a free throw.
So that's when all the players line up around you and you can throw the ball.
To the basket without anyone blocking you or anything.
A little bit complicated, but I'm sure the basketball fans understand what a free throw
is.
All right, our next word is...
Make the shot.
Let's listen to some examples and we'll understand the meaning of make the shot.
I can't believe it.
He made the shot from the other side of the court.
There's no way he's going to make that shot.
He's way too far away from the net.
If Gretzky makes this shot, they're going to win the Stanley Cup.
So it's clear now to make the shot is to successfully put the ball in the basket.
You can use this expression in other sports as well, right?
Yeah, you can use it in hockey to make the shot.
You could also use it in golf and a lot of different sports that use the term to shoot.
Shoot the ball.
So anytime you shoot the ball, you can make the shot.
Okay, our next word today, three pointer.
Three pointer.
A three pointer.
It's a shot in basketball when you get three points.
Usually this shot is taken from further out.
Yeah, a farther distance.
Yeah, so it's a little bit more difficult to make this shot.
You know, sometimes people might say a three point shot or something like that, but our
EnglishPod learners, they know.
It's a three pointer.
Yeah, you'll sound really knowledgeable, really cool using that one.
And our last word today, travel.
Travel.
To travel.
When you walk with the basketball.
Well technically, you're allowed to take two steps in basketball.
So when you take more than two steps, then it's traveling.
So yeah, traveling means to take more than two steps with the ball.
Let's listen to the dialogue a second time.
This time it'll be a bit slower so that we can understand some of these great phrases
The Bulls, of course.
Yeah, you were right.
Oh, did you see that?
He traveled and the ref didn't even call it.
I can't believe you didn't see that.
End of the first quarter.
Hey, I'm going to make a beer run.
Sweet.
All right, sports fans.
So now let's take a look at Fluency Builder.
Okay, today on Fluency Builder, we have two really common words that you would listen
to while you're watching a game.
Yeah, these are sort of slangy words, hey?
Yeah, they're kind of a common...
Like informal.
Informal.
The first one that we have is screw up.
Screw up.
To screw up.
Yeah, so this is a good way of saying...
To make a mistake.
Let's listen to some examples of how this word is used.
Jill, you really screwed up this time.
You're fired.
This game is important.
If you screw it up, we're out of the finals.
I know I screwed up.
Will you forgive me?
Okay, so screw up is mess up.
Yeah, make a mistake.
Make a mistake.
Great, and our last word on Fluency Builder today, a beer run.
A beer run.
Beer run.
So what is this beer run?
You run to get beer.
You go to the store and get beer.
Get more beer.
Okay, so it's just an expression meaning to go and get more beer.
Yeah, usually you're watching a game or you're at home with your friends, you run out of
beer so somebody has to...
Go get some beer.
Make a beer run.
Who's winning?
Three-pointer, yeah.
Okay, guys, I hope you enjoyed our lesson today.
We'll be bringing you more sports lessons in the future.
So if you have a particular sport that you want to learn about, you can tell us.
Come to our website, EnglishPod.com.
Yeah, and leave us your comments or your suggestions or any doubts that you have.
And we're always there to answer it, so we'll see you there.
Yes, until next time.
Hello English learners.
Welcome back to another great lesson here with EnglishPod.
And today we're bringing you an upper intermediate lesson.
A special lesson about the new president.
It's been a hot topic in the US, the new president elect, President Obama.
So today we're bringing you something that you might see at his inaugural address.
So Marco, can you explain this word, inaugural address?
The inaugural address is the first speech the president gives at the ceremony when he
is officially president.
So it's his first presidential speech.
So let's take a look at some other words that we're going to find in the dialogue today
in vocabulary preview.
On vocabulary preview today we have two words.
The first one is swear in.
Swear in.
We'll see this word in its past tense in the dialogue, right?
Sworn in.
So it means?
So to swear someone in is to officially give that person a very important position.
Usually in government.
And our second word is oath.
Oath.
O-A-T-H, oath.
And oath goes hand in hand with swear in, right?
When you swear someone in, they make an oath.
A promise, right?
A promise.
An official promise to carry out the duties of that job.
So they promise that they will do their job.
So now let's listen to our dialogue for a first time.
Where are we?
Well, we're actually watching a news reporter on TV.
She's in Washington and she's going to tell us all about what's happening.
This is Madeline Wright for BCC News reporting live from Washington, DC, where very shortly
the new president will deliver his inaugural address.
Just moments ago, the president was sworn into office following the United States Constitution.
The president swore an oath to faithfully execute the office of the presidency.
And what exactly is going on now, Madeline?
Well, Tom, true to American tradition, the band has just played Hail to the Chief and
the president has been honored with a 21-gun salute.
Now we're waiting for the president to take the stage and deliver his speech.
Tom, it's like the who's who of the political world here on Capitol Hill, with dignitaries
representing several different countries.
What's the mood on the ground like, Madeline?
In a word, the mood here is electric.
The excitement in the air is palpable.
I've never seen a larger crowd here on Capitol Hill.
The audience is shouting, crying, and embracing each other.
On this, a most historic day, you can feel the hope and the excitement in the air.
The 20th of January will go down in history as the...
Oh, Tom, it looks like the president is about to begin.
My fellow Americans, I stand before you today...
Okay, some technical problems at the inaugural address.
Yeah, I certainly hope this doesn't happen.
Well, if it does, you heard it first at EnglishPod.
Predictors of the future here.
Okay, let's take a look at Language Takeaway.
On Language Takeaway today, we're bringing you four words.
The first word is deliver.
Deliver.
Like, deliver a pizza.
We've got three examples that will show the meaning of this word.
Who's going to deliver the welcome speech?
I've been asked to deliver a presentation on the findings of our research project.
Dr. Rosen is delivering a lecture on macroeconomics.
Okay, so deliver a speech.
Say a speech.
To say a speech.
So you wouldn't say say a speech, you would say deliver a speech.
The next word for Language Takeaway, the who's who.
The who's who.
So this is a funny expression, hey?
It's kind of weird.
The who's who is the important people in a particular field, right?
So, for example, there was a party last night and the who's who of the film industry was
there.
Whoa, so all the important stars and directors.
So you would say the funeral was like a who's who of the political world.
Okay, so all the important political figures were at this funeral.
Let's move to our third word, Dignitaries.
Dignitaries.
Okay, we have some great examples so you can understand what this word means.
Several important dignitaries were present at the opening ceremony, including the President
of Brazil, the King of Spain, and the Pope.
There are going to be a lot of foreign dignitaries at the dinner.
So basically we can understand that dignitaries are really important people, right?
Important political or religious figures.
All right, now our last word for language takeaway, palpable.
Palpable.
When something is palpable, it's so strong you can feel it.
Okay, so it's a very strong feeling.
You can almost touch it.
Yeah, like the excitement was palpable or the fear was palpable.
Okay, interesting word, palpable.
Let's listen to our dialogue again and now let's try and listen to all these words we
just talked about.
This is Madeline Wright for BCC News reporting live from Washington, D.C., where very shortly
Tom is like the who's who of the political world here on Capitol Hill with dignitaries
The audience is shouting, crying and embracing each other.
My fellow Americans, I stand before you today.
Okay, so if you noticed in our dialogue, we have some really interesting phrases there.
So I think it's time for us to take a look at Fluency Builder.
On Fluency Builder today, we're going to be looking at three phrases that are very interesting
because we can change them a little bit and form different patterns.
So the first phrase we have is, in a word.
In a word.
We use this expression when we want to describe something in one word.
Pretty simple, hey?
It's really simple.
Let's look at the pattern.
We've got examples of how you could use this phrase.
In a word, the situation is serious.
What's it like there?
In a word, it's amazing.
Okay, so in a word, this podcast is...
Awesome.
Amazing.
Okay, let's look at our second phrase today.
Go down in history.
So this is a really common phrase.
I'm sure you guys have heard it.
Yeah, basically something that is really important that everyone will remember for a very long
Let's look at this pattern with a few examples.
This is going to go down in history as the worst disaster the world has ever seen.
He'll go down in history as the best president we've ever had.
This day will go down in history.
Okay, so as you can see, the pattern is we're using a superlative.
The most.
The worst.
The worst, right?
And our final phrase in putting it together is...
My fellow Americans.
So obviously you can change this one up a little bit, hey?
You can say my fellow co-workers.
My fellow citizens.
My fellow family members.
So basically fellow just means like dear.
In some way.
Well, similar.
Similar.
So we looked at some great vocabulary and phrases and now let's talk a little bit about
these American traditions when electing a new president.
Today in the studio we have JP who's joining us.
Hi everyone.
Hey JP.
And he's going to be talking to us about these traditions.
Oh, I am?
What are we going to talk about?
21 gun salute.
What's that all about?
The 21 gun salute is the military salute where they say, and now we will have the 21 gun
salute.
So 21 soldiers with their rifles, they go, and they all shoot them off at the same time.
And I don't know why.
I think it's a sign of respect, hey?
Weird respect though.
Well, I think in Europe they would do a cannon or something.
Oh, a cannon salute?
No, well, just cannons.
Maybe just one cannon.
Maybe our European listeners know the answer to this.
And what about this song Hail to the Chief?
Do you know anything about that?
I do not know anything about it except that it's a march and I think it's Souza.
I think John Philip Souza wrote it.
And whenever the president walks into a room, they play that song.
And I played it once for President Bush, the first one.
I was a drummer.
You did?
And my marching band had to play that song for him.
Oh my God, JP, you're like famous.
This was back in like 1986 or something.
Was that even an election year?
88?
Well, you did play for the president, so you know.
That's pretty cool.
So JP, do you have any other sort of traditional things that happen when the president becomes
the president?
Well, I can tell you that Jimmy Carter, you know, when he was elected president, his motorcade
was going down Pennsylvania Avenue and he stopped the car and got out.
To do what?
To walk.
He wanted to walk down Pennsylvania Avenue.
He wanted to walk down the, you know, down the street.
To be with the people?
Yeah, I think so.
And I think it made the Secret Service insane.
Maybe the car smelled bad or something.
Maybe so.
I think that is my memory of it.
I might be confusing with the West Wing, but I'm not sure.
Too much TV.
Yeah, maybe.
But when the president walks, it's a big deal.
So JP, do you do anything special for the inauguration ceremony?
I always take the day off to watch.
You do?
I love watching it.
I love, you know, the swearing in ceremony, the ritual of it, the speech.
All right, everyone, we're out of time.
I hope you enjoyed this political lesson.
I hope you have a happy inauguration day.
Happy inauguration day, everyone.
We're definitely going to take the day off to watch it with JP.
And hopefully you guys can too.
Well, thanks for listening, everyone.
I'm joined here today with...
And my name is Marco.
And we're going to be looking at an office lesson today.
We've got a lesson about describing somebody who's not such a good employee.
So we're going to be talking about how to describe this type of situation and language
for making your point.
So let's look at some vocabulary from the dialogue in Vocabulary Preview.
So two words today.
The first one is a good fit.
A good fit.
So when we're talking about an employee and he's a good fit, it means he's suitable for
the job.
He's suitable for the job or for the company.
For the company, right?
So the opposite would be not a good fit.
The title of today's lesson.
And our last word for Vocabulary Preview, performance.
Performance.
Your performance is...
How good or bad you do your job.
So you can have good performance or bad performance.
Just how well you do your job.
So now we're ready to listen to our dialogue for the first time and as always, it's going
to be at a normal speed, but you don't have to worry about it.
Because we'll come back and explain all the key language.
Now we're going to listen as two managers discuss the performance of one employee.
So Lauren, I just wanted to talk to you quickly about our new customer support representative,
Jason Huntley.
Basically, I've got a few concerns about him.
And the bottom line is, I don't think he's a good fit for our company.
What makes you say that?
I thought you were pleased with his overall performance.
Didn't you just tell me last week how impressed you were with his attitude?
Yeah, his attitude is great, but he's really unreliable.
Sometimes he's really productive, but then other times...
Take last Tuesday, for instance.
He was 45 minutes late for our morning meeting.
Well, I'm sure he had a perfectly good reason.
But that's not the only thing.
You know, he really doesn't have the best work ethic.
I'm constantly catching him on MSN and Facebook when he should be talking to clients.
Yeah, but come on, Jeff.
As if you don't check Facebook at work.
Look, you hired this guy.
We've invested a lot of time and money in his training.
So now it's up to you to coach him.
Make it work, Jeff.
You would say that, wouldn't you?
He is your cousin.
What a jerk.
Making me hire his stupid, useless cousin.
So apparently, Lauren hired her cousin.
That's always a complicated situation working with family members.
Yeah, it makes it really difficult for Jeff, doesn't it?
Yeah, and apparently Jeff isn't very happy.
Well, let's look at the language he used to tell us that he's unhappy about this.
Okay, the first word on language takeaway today.
Unreliable.
So, let's listen to some examples of unreliable so then you can understand what it means.
The trains here are so unreliable.
They never arrive on time.
Thomas is pretty unreliable.
He never finishes his projects on time.
You promised you would pick me up from work today.
You're so unreliable.
We can understand that if someone is unreliable, we can't trust them to do their job, right?
So you don't want to be unreliable.
The opposite would be?
Reliable.
You can trust them.
Our second word today.
Productive.
When you're productive, it means that you accomplish your job, right?
You do a lot of work in a short amount of time.
You want to be a productive employee.
Our third word, work ethic.
Work ethic.
So a person's work ethic is that person's attitude towards work.
If they have a good work ethic, then they are always hardworking and they come to work
early and they finish their jobs on time and they stay and do lots of overtime.
So that's a good work ethic.
And our last word, coach.
Coach.
When you coach an employee, you train them, right?
Yeah, you help that employee out by showing him or her how to do certain tasks.
Or how to do their job better.
So we've got some great language to describe work performance.
Let's listen to our dialogue a second time.
This time it'll be a little bit slower so you can understand these words and phrases
a little bit more clearly.
And the bottom line is I don't think he's a good fit for our company.
Yeah, his attitude is great.
But he's really unreliable.
Sometimes he's really productive.
But then other times...
Take last Tuesday for instance.
Make me hire your stupid, useless cousin.
All right, so if you noticed, a lot of useful phrases have come up.
So let's take a look at Fluency Builder.
Fluency Builder, today we have three phrases.
Three phrases that will help us make our point better.
The first one is bottom line.
The bottom line.
Let's listen to how this was used in the dialogue.
So basically it means...
Like the most important point.
The most important point.
Our second word, overall.
Overall.
So this is the same as saying on the whole.
So it's a big picture, how you would say.
Yeah, in general.
In general.
So his overall performance is good.
It means in general.
His performance is good.
And our last phrase is very interesting because we can mix it up a little bit.
Perfectly good.
So this is an interesting phrase because you can describe different objects in this way.
A perfectly good reason.
A perfectly good car.
A perfectly good computer.
So by the sounds of it, it's kind of like justifying.
It's saying there's no problem with it.
There's no problem with it.
Why would you throw it away if it's a perfectly good computer?
So now we can listen to our dialogue a third time at a normal speed and now we're ready
to understand everything.
So, Lauren, I just wanted to talk to you quickly about our new customer support representative,
Basically, I've got a few concerns about him and the bottom line is I don't think he's
a good fit for our company.
His attitude is great, but he's really unreliable.
Sometimes he's really productive, but then other times, take last Tuesday for instance,
he was 45 minutes late for our morning meeting.
Making me hire your stupid, useless cousin.
I hope everyone enjoyed our lesson today.
We've found some really useful vocabulary for a business situation.
So go to our website at EnglishPod.com where you can leave all your questions and comments
and also find a lot of other resources.
Marco and I are always on the site and we're happy to answer your questions.
And today we're bringing you the third part of this series that we've created called I'm
Sorry I Love You.
The third part in our story about our EnglishPod couple.
Yeah, it's a romantic series, but today we're bringing you an argument.
Like in every relationship, you have fights, you have discussions, so we're going to teach
you how to do that in English.
And in today's lesson, you'll learn some great language that people use when they get into
an argument with their boyfriend or girlfriend.
So why don't we take a look at vocabulary preview.
We have one phrase today.
Get a hold.
To get a hold.
To get a hold of someone means...
To try and communicate with that person.
So to try and call that person.
For example, I can say, I've been calling his phone all day, but I can't get a hold
of him.
Or I could say, finally, Marco, I got a hold of you.
Where have you been all day?
Now we're going to listen to our dialogue and as always, it's going to be at a normal
pace, but you don't have to worry about it.
We'll come back and teach you all of the important words.
There was an emergency at work, so...
Honey, I promise this won't happen again.
It's just that I...
I'm tired of you putting your job first all the time.
Come on, Veronica.
That's not fair.
I do care about you a lot.
You know that.
I try to...
Maybe we should just take a break.
I need some time to think about where this relationship is heading.
But Veronica, would you listen to me?
There was a fire alarm at my office building today and I was...
Okay so a little bit of trouble in the relationship.
Yeah, that's too bad.
Yeah, well, I think she's overreacting.
We'll talk about that later on.
But we saw some great words and phrases here, so it's time for Language Takeaway.
Today on Language Takeaway, we're bringing you three words.
The first word is, stood me up.
Stood me up.
The phrase, stand someone up, when do we use this?
If, for example, you have a date and you don't go.
Okay, so let's say you and I were supposed to have dinner together and you just didn't
come and didn't call.
Right, so I stood you up.
Stand someone up.
Our next word, priorities.
Priorities.
So, priorities are something that's really important in your life.
That's right, like family or maybe work or making a lot of money or whatever it is.
What are your priorities in life, right?
And our last word for Language Takeaway, heading.
Heading.
This is a bit of a funny verb.
So let's listen to a couple of examples of how it's used so we can understand its meaning.
I don't know where our relationship is heading.
Where's this bus heading?
Where's this project heading?
So basically heading means going.
A heading is where you're going.
Okay, easy word and interesting.
Okay so now it's time for us to listen to the dialogue a second time.
It's going to be slower so now we can understand the words that we just talked about.
Stephen, where have you been?
I've been trying to get a hold of you for hours.
There was an emergency at work so...
I was waiting for you in the restaurant for three hours and you didn't even have the decency
to call me.
Do you have any idea how embarrassed I was?
Yeah, right.
I've heard it all before.
I'm not going to take any more of your empty promises.
This is the fifth time you've stood me up in two weeks.
You need to get your priorities straight.
Come on, Veronica, that's not fair.
I tried.
But Veronica, would you just listen to me?
There was a fire alarm at my office building today and I was stuck...
Okay now we saw some interesting phrases in dialogue.
Yeah, we saw some great phrases that people use when they're getting in a fight.
Why don't we take a look at some of them in Fluency Builder?
The first phrase that I want to take a look at today is, do you have any idea?
Do you have any idea?
This is a great way to set up an argument.
So let's listen to some examples of how you would set up an argument using this phrase.
You forgot my birthday.
Do you have any idea how angry I am?
Julie kissed my boyfriend.
Does she have any idea how mean that was?
I just broke up with my boyfriend.
Don't you have any idea how sad I am?
So it's a great phrase to make that person understand that you were really worried or
really angry.
Really angry.
And now the second phrase that we can take a look at is, I've heard it all before.
So this is a great phrase of just saying, you don't have to give me an excuse.
I know what you're going to say.
And our last phrase today, take a break.
Take a break.
So when a couple takes a break, they sort of stop their relationship, right?
They're breaking up.
But is it really like forever?
Like a breakup that lasts forever?
Not, well, maybe.
It could be forever, but they're saying, let's just take some time away from each other for
a couple of days or weeks.
And see what happens.
So our happy couple is going to take a break.
Well, I guess they're not that happy then, hey?
So let's listen to their dialogue again, and then we'll come back and talk some more.
I, uh, there was an emergency at work, so...
I was waiting for you in the restaurant for three hours, and you didn't even have the
decency to call me.
This is the fifth time you stood me up in two weeks.
But, Veronica, would you listen to me?
There was a fire alarm at my office building today, and I was...
So, Marco, this phrase, to take a break, really reminds me of a Friends episode.
Yeah, that really famous Friends episode when Ross and Rachel were on a break.
And Ross, like, went with another girl, right?
Yeah, and then they definitely broke up after that.
So that's one of the key issues, right?
If you're taking a break, can you start to date someone else?
I've got to agree with Rachel.
Yeah. No, you can't.
You can't?
So what's the point of taking a break?
You need some time away.
You need some time to think.
But you're not really broken up.
That's convenient.
They were on a break.
I agree with Ross.
Well, you would, wouldn't you?
We're out of time today.
I hope you enjoyed our lesson, and be sure to listen next time because we will definitely have a part four to this.
Coming out soon.
And also come to our website at EnglishPod.com and leave all your questions and comments.
Yeah, Marco and I are always happy to hear from you, and we love answering your questions.
Right, and maybe you can tell us what you think happens in the fourth part.
Well, until then, it's...
Hello English learners, welcome to EnglishPod.
And today we have a very special guest in our studio, Daini.
Hi everyone, I'm Daini.
Daini is part of our EnglishPod team and today she's going to help us with this Chinese New
Year's lesson.
It's an intermediate lesson but it has a lot of cultural aspects about Chinese New Year.
So that's what Daini is going to help us out with today.
Yes, today we're going to learn a little bit about Chinese New Year in English and we're
also going to learn some language for describing things that we're excited about.
Okay, yeah, I'm excited to hear the show.
Okay, so let's listen to the dialogue now and then when we come back we'll explain everything.
I'm so excited about Chinese New Year.
When do I get to visit grandma?
Grandma makes the best dumplings in the world.
Ah, right, sounds to me like you're more excited about dumplings than seeing your grandma.
Of course I miss grandma too.
I bet she's going to teach me how to play mahjong.
Hey, dad, are you going to buy me firecrackers this year?
We're going to have the best fireworks.
I'm really looking forward to lighting them.
Son, firecrackers aren't toys.
They are dangerous.
No, fireworks are awesome.
Wow, don't you remember?
Last year when I set off the firecrackers, you covered both your ears and hid behind
your mother.
Dad, I was scared because I saw a bug, that's all.
Oh, and I can't wait to watch the dragon dance.
Dad, can I sit on your shoulders this time?
Hey, I offered last year.
Well, I...
Anyways, I was just thinking of the red envelopes.
I want to make a list of all the things I'm going to buy with my red envelope money.
I can't wait.
I'm going to have so much money.
Mom, can I get a pen and a piece of paper?
I want a new transformer.
No, two transformers.
I'm going to surprise.
Wheeljack.
I'll get a PSP game.
Okay, so Chinese New Year.
A lot of exciting vocabulary here.
Before we get into describing it, let's look at the vocabulary that we saw.
In language takeaway.
The first word on language takeaway, dumplings.
Dumplings.
Well, in Chinese, we call it shuǐjiǎo, and it's a very traditional Chinese food
and it's getting very famous now.
Yes, so it's basically small pieces of dough with maybe some meat or some vegetables inside.
And then they are boiled.
Usually in a soup.
In a soup.
And then they also have fried dumplings.
Yeah, yeah, that's right.
Which are really good.
So, if you know Italian food, they're really similar to a tortellini.
Or in Latin America, it's very similar to maybe an empanada.
It's like a small little empanada.
Marco, what's our next word?
All right, our next word, firecrackers.
Firecrackers.
This is a firecracker.
Firecrackers are so common in China.
We use it all the time in all occasions.
And especially on the New Year's Eve, traditionally people use it to scare off the evil.
Evil spirits.
The evil spirits.
So on Chinese New Year, there are millions of firecrackers.
Millions of firecrackers.
Now, there are also a lot of fireworks.
Fireworks.
So, fireworks are similar to firecrackers.
But they have lots of light.
A light.
They go up in the air and explode and you see lots of nice colors.
Beautiful colors.
Very popular in 4th of July in the United States.
Or New Year's Eve.
New Year's Eve.
Okay, now let's look at our last word.
Set off.
So, this is the verb you would use with firecrackers.
It means like explode the firecracker.
Set off the firecracker.
Set off the bomb.
Set off fireworks.
Well, let's listen to our dialogue a second time.
And this time, it'll be a little bit slower so that you can understand the language a
When do I get to visit Grandma?
Ha-ha.
Sounds to me like you are more excited about dumplings than seeing your grandma.
Of course, I miss Grandma, too.
I bet she's going to teach me how to play Mahjong.
Hey, Dad, are you going to buy me firecrackers this year?
They're dangerous.
Whoa.
Don't you remember last year when I set off the firecrackers?
You covered both your ears and hid behind your mother.
Dad, I was scared because I saw a bug.
That's all.
The Optimus Prime and maybe the Wheeljack.
I'll buy the entire class lunch at McDonald's.
Okay, so we saw some really great phrases of describing excitement, right?
We have four phrases for you today and the first one is, I'm so excited about.
I'm so excited about.
So when you say, I'm so excited, it means that you are...
I'm really happy.
That something is going to happen.
Yeah, so happy you can't relax.
Right, so you could say, I'm so excited about our vacation next month.
I'm so excited about opening all my presents.
Exactly, so excited.
Now we also saw another really great word, very similar to I'm so excited.
I'm really looking forward to.
So this is a little bit less than excited, right?
A bit less strong.
So you would say, oh, I'm really looking forward to meeting your new girlfriend.
Or you can say, I'm really looking forward to seeing that movie.
So it means you're a little bit excited but not so excited.
Yeah, you're happy about something that's going to happen in the future.
Now let's look at our next phrase and it's very similar to excited.
So this is very, very similar to I'm so excited.
Yes, when you're so excited for something, you can't wait for it.
Let's listen to some more examples of I can't wait.
I'm so excited.
I can't wait to see you.
Mmm, smells delicious.
I can't wait for dinner.
I can't wait to open my presents.
So we can use it again the same way.
I can't wait to go on vacation next month.
I can't wait to open all my presents.
Now our last phrase.
I bet.
B-E-T.
Bet.
So when you say I bet, it means that you're pretty sure about something.
You predict it will happen.
So let's listen to some more examples of I bet.
I bet I'm going to get so much money for Chinese New Year.
Robert Slade.
Where do you think he is?
I bet he's stuck in traffic.
I bet the boss is going to give us a big bonus this year.
Well, I guess we're ready to listen to our dialogue for the third time.
And then when we come back, Danny's going to tell us all about Chinese New Year.
Sounds to me like you're more excited about dumplings than seeing your grandma.
Hey, dad.
Are you going to buy me firecrackers this year?
Don't you remember?
Last year when I set out the firecrackers, you covered both your ears and hid behind
Optimus Prime.
Ha ha.
I'm going to get a new game.
So Daini, what are these red packets of money about?
So in Chinese, we call it 紅包 hóngbāo, and it's basically a bag full of money.
Why do you get money?
As a gift.
Do children get it though?
Many children get it.
If you're a university student and you haven't got a job yet, then you can still ask for
紅包 hóngbāo from your parents or your relatives.
So is there some meaning to this gift of money?
Well, it is believed that children have to put these red envelopes under their pillow
on New Year's Eve to scare away the evil spirits.
Again, like the firecrackers.
Again, evil spirits.
A lot of evil spirits in China.
So Daini, how much money would a kid get for Chinese New Year?
Well, when I was little, the best year I got was 3000 RMB.
Which is like almost...
500 dollars.
I was so rich at that time.
Wow, amazing.
What about this game, 麻將 mājiǎng?
Have you played it?
And again, it's a very traditional Chinese game and you will see senior people always
gathering along the table.
So old people.
Old people.
So it's like a board game, kind of like chess?
It's kind of like chess, but they have like specially made chess.
It's very different.
So I want to know more about the fireworks and firecrackers on Chinese New Year.
Okay, usually we buy firecrackers.
I believe fireworks are more expensive.
So we play firecrackers, 炮仗 pàozhàng.
And usually we do it right after midnight.
So 12 o'clock.
It's very loud.
And say for example, I personally don't even dare to stay close when they set off the firecrackers
because it's just way too loud.
And everyone starts to light them.
So it's like...
No, it's amazing.
I've seen Chinese New Year three times in China.
And each time I've just been amazed.
It's so cool and so noisy and so awesome.
I mean, you've got to visit China to see this.
Yeah, it's a really cool festival.
And definitely playing with firecrackers is always fun.
Yeah, maybe a little bit dangerous.
Well everyone, we've just learned about how New Year's is celebrated in China.
And we want to know how do you celebrate New Year's in your country?
How do you welcome the New Year?
How do you scare away evil spirits?
So come to our website at EnglishPod.com and leave us your comments.
Dany, Erica and I will be there to answer all your questions.
So be sure to send us some comments.
Well everyone, thanks for listening.
And until next time, bye.
Hi, bye.
And today we're bringing you another great lesson for all of you who are interested in
shopping.
Especially those of you who are interested in shopping for a car.
A car, exactly.
So we're going to give you some great language about describing a car or characteristics
of a car.
And also some really interesting language for shopping.
Yes, especially buying something really big and expensive.
Yeah, like a car.
So before we listen to our dialogue, let's take a look at vocabulary preview.
On vocabulary preview today, we're bringing you two words.
The first one is vehicle.
So, again, a vehicle is a machine, right?
A machine that carries people from one place to another.
So it's important to say that a vehicle could be an airplane.
A car.
A boat.
Yeah, that's a vehicle.
Our second word is sedan.
Sedan.
So a sedan is a type of car.
It's a type of car with four doors that can fit five people inside.
So to make it more clear, most taxis are sedans.
They have four doors, five people can fit in there, including the driver.
Except taxis in Mexico.
They're not sedans?
They're little beetles.
They're Volkswagen beetles.
So those are not sedans.
But yeah, most countries have sedans as taxis.
To give you some examples, like a Toyota Corolla or a Toyota Camry is a sedan.
Maybe like a Volkswagen Jetta.
Is that a...
A Jetta, yeah.
A Jetta is a sedan.
Now we can listen to our dialogue, and it's going to be at a normal speed the first time,
but you don't have to worry about it.
We'll come back and teach you some of the important words from the dialogue.
Hi there, can I help you folks?
I'm just browsing, seeing what's on the lot.
My daughter wants a car for her birthday, you know how it is.
Dad, I'm 16 already, and I'm like the only one at school who doesn't have a car.
She's right, you know.
Kids these days all have cars.
Let me show you something we just got in, a 1996 sedan, excellent gas mileage.
It has dual airbags and anti-lock brakes, a perfect vehicle for a young driver.
Dad, I love it.
It's awesome.
Can we get this one, please?
What can you tell me about this one?
Oh, that's just an old World War II tank that we used for TV commercials.
Now about this sedan...
Whoa, whoa, wait a minute.
Tell me more about this tank.
Well, sir, if you are looking for quality and safety, then look no further.
Three inches of reinforced steel protect your daughter from short-range missile attacks.
Does the sedan protect her from missile attacks?
It does not.
Well, I don't know.
Let me sleep on it.
Did I mention the tank is a tank?
I'll take it.
Dad!
I think she's really lucky.
She's getting a tank to go to school.
How awesome is that?
I would be so embarrassed if I had to drive to school in a tank.
It's like the coolest car.
Oh, you're such a boy.
All right, a surprising ending to a relatively easy shopping day.
Let's take a look at some language that we saw in our dialogue on Language Takeaway.
We have four words for you today.
The first one is gas mileage.
Gas mileage.
So gas mileage is how many miles you can travel on a gallon or liter of gasoline.
Well, you know what's interesting?
In some English-speaking countries like Australia, New Zealand, Canada, we use kilometers to
measure distance, but we still talk about gas mileage.
I guess you can't say gas kilomileage.
Or something like that.
But yeah, it's basically how many kilometers or how many miles you can travel on a tank
or on a liter or gallon of gas.
The next word is airbags.
Airbags.
These are like big bags of air that fill up and come out of the car when there's a crash.
So that way you don't hit your head against the steering wheel or something like that.
So they protect you.
I've heard that Volvo has like 18 airbags now in their cars.
They are very safe cars, you know.
Like a big balloon.
Our third word today is brakes.
Brakes.
So what are brakes?
Brakes are little...
What are brakes?
Brakes are what make your car stop.
So they're the little machines maybe that stop your car?
They're on the wheels.
They make your car stop.
You have brakes on your bike.
On your car, etc.
Our last word today on Language Takeaway, reinforced.
Reinforced.
So we have some examples of how we use reinforced because it's a little bit weird.
These will help you understand the meaning.
So I reinforced all the walls.
There's no way they're going to fall down.
This plastic is reinforced with glass, so it's both light and strong.
So basically anything that's reinforced is made stronger.
Reinforced steel, reinforced table, anything.
So now we can listen to our dialogue again.
You can practice all these words that we just talked about and we'll come back shortly.
Can I help you folks?
My daughter wants a car for her birthday.
You know how it is.
Dad, I'm 16 already and I'm like the only one at school who doesn't have a car.
She is right, you know.
Let me show you something we just got in.
A 1996 sedan.
Excellent gas mileage.
It has dual airbags and anti-lock brakes.
A perfect vehicle for a young driver.
Oh, that's just an old World War II tank that we use for TV commercials.
Now about this sedan.
Dad.
So we have a couple of interesting phrases to talk about shopping.
Let's look at these in Fluency Builder.
The first one today is, I'm just browsing.
I'm just browsing.
This is a really useful phrase because usually salespeople will come up to you and ask you,
can I help you?
Are you interested in something?
And you're just looking.
Yeah, you maybe don't really want to buy today.
So you're just, I'm just browsing.
So then they'll just leave you alone.
Yeah, they won't bother you as much.
Yeah, it's a good, good phrase.
Another good phrase.
Sleep on it.
So we have some examples of how we use sleep on it.
I don't know if we should buy that house.
It's perfect for us, but it's so expensive.
Let's sleep on it.
Why don't you sleep on it and tell me tomorrow?
This is a bit more than what I can afford.
To sleep on it means to...
Like to think about it overnight.
To think about it.
So maybe you want to buy this really expensive car.
But you need to think about it.
So you'll sleep on it.
So yeah.
You go home, sleep on it, think about it twice, and then make a decision.
Okay, great words and great dialogue.
Yeah, I love this dialogue.
Yeah, it's kind of funny.
So we could listen to it again, and then we'll come back and talk a little bit about it.
So, Marco, have you ever driven a tank?
I mean, I know you're in the Army.
Yeah, actually I did.
I did drive a tank before.
Yeah, really old one.
Kind of like a World War II type tank.
But yeah, they're really fun and interesting.
It's not like driving a normal car.
You have pedals.
So there's no steering wheel?
No, no, no.
You have levers.
And what many people don't know is that actually tanks are manual transmissions.
You have to change gears.
And it's really hard to change gears on those things.
And what's the gas mileage like in a tank?
Maybe like five miles per gallon.
They run on diesel, which is a different type of fuel, right?
Okay, well, very cool.
I never knew that my podcast partner had driven a tank.
That's pretty awesome.
Yeah, well, it was fun, definitely.
And I hope I get to do it again someday.
Well, guys, have you ever driven a tank?
Or a submarine or any type of armored vehicle?
You can find out more about it at our website, EnglishPod.com.
We'll be there to answer all your questions.
I'll also be there to maybe post some more crazy stories.
Or some pictures of a tank.
Until then, it's goodbye.
Cheers.
And we're bringing you another great elementary lesson for all those elementary learners.
In today's lesson, we've got some excellent language that will help you to describe someone's
appearance.
It's something that everyone has learned before in school, describing people.
So we're going to review that and give you some better phrases.
Some real English phrases.
Real English phrases.
So let's listen to our dialogue for the first time, and then we'll come back and talk about
I heard you were on a date last night.
So how did it go?
I want all the juicy details.
Um, well, actually, we had a fantastic time last night.
He was amazing.
Okay, now you really have to fill me in.
He's really good looking.
He's quite tall, around 6'1".
He's in his early 30s, and he's got the most beautiful dark brown eyes.
He sounds hot.
What does he do for a living?
This is the best part.
David is a junior investment banker at Fortune Bank.
So he's got a great career path ahead of him.
Hold on a sec.
His name is David?
That's my brother!
All right, so interesting dialogue.
Small world.
It is a small world.
I don't know how I would feel about dating my friend's brother.
No, I wouldn't feel good about it.
Well, because if you break up with the brother, then like, that means you'll have to end the
friendship with your best friend.
Dangerous.
Girls are more complicated with that.
We guys, we're not that complicated.
Let's look at the language before this gets too far.
Let's take a look at Language Takeaway.
On Language Takeaway today, we're bringing you three words.
The first one is heard.
Heard.
So you guys know this word.
It's a substance of hear, right?
But the way it's used is quite interesting.
Let's listen to a couple of examples of how it's used.
I heard you're dating a new guy.
Julie told me she heard that you're pregnant.
What you got fired?
I heard that you quit.
So when you say for example, oh, I heard you were pregnant.
This is like telling someone that you found some information about them, but you're not
sure if it's true or if it's false.
Our next word, fill me in.
So when you tell someone to fill you in.
You're saying tell me about it.
Tell me the details.
I could say, I'm sorry I was late for the meeting.
Can you fill me in on what happened?
Or I could say, I missed the first five minutes of the movie.
Great word.
And our last phrase today, career path.
Career path.
So what's a career path?
I guess this is the plan for your job over several like 10 or 20 years.
So the jobs and things you do during your career.
That's your career path.
So in this case, David has a really good career path because he's going to be a really rich
and powerful investment banker.
So career path.
Very good.
So now let's listen to our dialogue again and pay special attention to the language
used to describe David because when we come back, we're going to talk about this.
Irene, I heard you were on a date last night.
Um, well, actually we had a fantastic time last night.
Now you really have to fill me in.
He's in his early 30s and he's got the most beautiful dark brown eyes.
You know what, this is the best part.
That's my brother.
So we found some really great words and phrases used to describe someone.
There's a lot of language in here talking about the way someone looks.
So let's listen again as Irene describes David.
So let's break this down.
The first thing she says is, he's really good looking.
Good looking.
So good looking is the equivalent of handsome.
Or pretty.
Pretty.
But I think good looking sounds a lot more natural than handsome.
You wouldn't really use handsome.
Like I would never say that.
Even though it's correct.
It's just good looking sounds much more natural.
I guess for me, whenever someone says handsome, it sounds like an older person.
It sounds old fashioned.
Like my grandma would say, oh he's a handsome young man.
So she says, he's quite tall.
Quite tall.
So we know quite means very.
And tall, we know.
So you can describe a person in different ways.
He's quite tall.
He's kind of tall.
He's sort of tall.
He's a bit short.
He's not that short.
So these are great words we can use to describe someone's height.
Then, she talked about his exact height.
She said he was 6'1".
6'1".
Around 6'1".
This is interesting because in the United States and Canada, you give a person's height
using feet and inches.
So we don't talk about meters and centimeters.
So 6'1 would be 6 feet 1 inch.
But in other countries, you would talk about centimeters or meters.
So 6'1 is like, 6'1 is about 180.
About that.
So this is an interesting difference between...
Like English-speaking countries and European countries.
So the next time you give your height to someone, make sure you do it in feet more
or less.
It sounds a lot more natural.
And actually, if you say to somebody in Canada, for example, I'm 175 centimeters, they wouldn't
know really how tall that was.
How tall that is.
Now, the next part is really, really useful.
She said he's in his early 30s.
In his early 30s.
His early 30s.
Early 30s.
So this is a way of describing someone's age without actually giving the exact number.
So for example, early 30s.
So like 32, 33.
Mid 30s.
Like 34, 35, 36.
Oh, 36.
And then late 30s would be?
38, 39.
And you could do the same thing for...
Like 40s.
40s, 50s, 60s.
20s.
You wouldn't do this before your 20s.
I don't think it's really common to talk about your teens.
You wouldn't say like his mid-teens or early teens.
Sounds a bit weird.
Great language used to describe people.
But one more word.
He's hot.
Or he sounds hot.
So this is another sort of informal way of describing someone who's really good-looking.
Good-looking.
Really sexy.
But it is informal.
It is really informal.
Maybe even a little bit offensive.
You wouldn't go up to a girl and say, wow, you're hot.
It's a little bit too impolite.
You would say, wow, you're really pretty or you're gorgeous.
But you wouldn't say, wow, you're hot.
You would never say that to somebody.
That's something you would comment with your friends.
So we've looked at some really good language for describing people.
Now we could listen to our dialogue a third time and I'm sure you will understand everything.
Okay, so we looked at really useful language for describing people and we want you to describe
your girlfriend, boyfriend.
Or even yourself.
What do you look like?
How tall are you?
How old are you?
And try and use the language from today's lesson.
So come to EnglishPod.com and leave your questions and comments on our website.
And your descriptions.
And your description.
And we'll definitely be there to answer any doubts as well.
Well guys, thanks for listening today.
And we're bringing you another great elementary lesson today, one that takes place at the
office.
Today, we're going to teach you some great phrases so that you can ask people to help
And I think this dialogue is with a new person at the office.
So when you're new, you always need to ask people for favors.
So, we're going to be asking for a favor.
So, Marco, what exactly is a favor?
Something that a person does for you.
Like a small, helpful thing.
Yeah, a small, helpful thing.
So, you know, like, can you pass me that pencil?
Maybe that's even a favor.
Or maybe, can you pick me up on your way to work?
Yeah, that's a favor.
Or even lending money to your friend.
That's a favor.
So that's what we're going to be talking about, favors and how to ask for one.
Because you always have to do this at work.
At work, with your friends, with your family.
So let's listen to the dialogue and then we'll come back and explain all the vocabulary.
Um, sorry to bother you.
My name is Rachel.
I'm new here.
Can I ask you for a favor?
Hi, Rachel.
Welcome on board.
I'm afraid I can't help you right now.
I'm getting ready for a very important meeting.
Excuse me, but can I bother you for a second?
I'd love to help you, but I'm about to meet an important client.
Do you want to ask Sean instead?
He sits right over there.
Sorry to interrupt you, Sean.
Could you do me a quick favor?
Actually, I'm working on a document that's due in a couple of minutes.
I really can't talk right now.
I just want to know where the bathroom is.
What's wrong with you people?
So a pretty busy office.
Pretty unhelpful colleagues.
Everyone's so busy they didn't help this poor girl.
Yeah, I hope she found the bathroom.
Now let's take a look at the language from the dialogue.
There's some great language in this dialogue, wasn't there?
Yeah, a lot of interesting phrases and words.
The first one that I saw that was really interesting is on board.
On board.
Well, we've got some examples of how this phrase is used.
So let's listen to them to help us understand the meaning.
Welcome on board, Sarah.
If you have any questions, please feel free to ask me.
We need to get our new office assistant on board as soon as possible.
We decided to bring Melissa on board to join the marketing team.
Welcome to the company.
Or...
The team.
So on board is the same as to the company.
I guess also when you get on a ship, they'll tell you welcome on board.
Yes, that's where it comes from.
Or an airplane.
Okay, let's take a look at our next word.
About to.
I'm about to.
So this is a great phrase to explain that you're about to do something.
I'm going to do this thing really soon.
Okay, so for example, you can say, I'm about to go out for lunch.
Or I could say, hey Marco, let's go record a show.
I'm about to go into a meeting.
Going to do something really soon.
The next word we have is instead.
Instead.
It means in the place of.
In the place of.
So for example, if we're at dinner, I could say, I'll have the chicken instead of the
fish.
Or I can say, I wanted to buy a red sweater, but they didn't have one, so I bought a blue
one instead.
So in the place of.
And our last word for language takeaway, interrupt.
Interrupt.
So when somebody interrupts you, they come in and.
They talk to you while you're doing something or maybe while you're speaking.
Or maybe you're busy and people come and.
Bother you.
So interrupt.
Okay, some great words here in our dialogue and now we can listen to it again.
This time it's going to be a little bit slower.
And you'll be able to understand the language a little bit better.
Sorry to bother you.
Hi Rachel.
Do you want to try Sean instead?
Actually I'm working on a document that is due in a couple of minutes.
I really can't talk to you right now.
Jeez.
Okay, so there are some great ways that you can ask someone for a favor, right?
Yeah, we want to show you some really useful phrases for asking for help.
So let's start with putting it together.
Let's listen to some different ways of how you can ask someone for a favor.
May I get you to do me a favor?
Can you carry this package in your suitcase for me?
Can I ask you a favor?
Can you just finish this report for me?
Will you do me a favor and pass me that file?
Okay, so those were great examples of asking for a favor.
In our dialogue we heard, can I ask you a favor?
But we could also say, can I get you to do me a favor?
Can I get you to do me a favor?
Also, I could say, will you do me a favor?
Will you do me a favor?
So those are different ways of asking for a favor.
Let's say you want to ask someone for a favor, right?
But they're busy.
So you'll need some phrases to help you do this.
You need some phrases to interrupt somebody, right?
So let's listen to some examples of what phrases you can use to begin to talk to someone.
Yeah, to interrupt them.
I hate to bother you, but...
I'm sorry to bother you, but...
I don't mean to bother you, but...
Okay, so those are really nice and polite ways of beginning to talk to someone.
They're really useful at the office.
So maybe you want to talk to your boss, you knock on his door, kind of open it a little
bit and say, I'm sorry to bother you, but I was wondering if you have time for a meeting
today?
Or you could say, I hate to bother you, but do you have time for a meeting today?
So those are great ways of starting up a conversation and maybe setting it up to ask for a favor,
So we can combine them.
I could say, I hate to bother you, but can you do me a favor?
Yeah, really useful.
So then you can ask someone for a favor.
So I guess we can listen to our dialogue again.
Yeah, let's listen to our dialogue for the third time and this time I'm sure you'll understand
I'm sorry to bother you.
Geez, I just want to know where the bathroom is.
Alright so now you have all the vocabulary necessary the next time you need to ask someone
for a favor.
You can do that in your office, with your friends, with your family, anyone.
Well everyone, we are out of time for today, but remember to visit our website at EnglishPod.com.
Exactly at our website you'll find the script of the dialogue and also you'll find intermediate
lessons, upper intermediate and even advanced.
Yeah exactly.
Our website is a great resource for learning.
Marco and I are always there to answer your questions and we also have lots of helpful
users who answer your questions.
Exactly so don't miss out.
Come to our website at EnglishPod.com and we'll see you there.
Until next time.
Good Sarmalee until next time.
And today we're going back to the movies.
We've got a great lesson today and I'm really excited about this dialogue.
I think it's fantastic.
We have an original EnglishPod production of a movie trailer.
So what is a movie trailer?
Well, whenever you go to the cinema, before the movie starts, you have previews of upcoming
movies.
So it's an advertisement for a future movie.
So that's a movie trailer and that's what we're bringing you today.
A lot of great language you'll commonly hear in action movies.
So let's start with vocabulary preview.
We have one word today, possess.
Possess.
So when you possess something, you have it.
It's in your possession.
You have it, right?
So in this dialogue, our actors possess something very important.
So let's listen to the dialogue for the first time and it's going to be a little bit fast
and a little bit difficult to understand.
But don't worry, we'll come back and explain all of the key language later.
Look!
In a digital world, even the strongest must fight for survival.
Two people possess a secret so valuable, so powerful, they have to defend it at all costs.
I don't care where they are.
I don't care what it takes.
You find them and bring them to me.
They only had one chance and their chance was to fight back.
You want to play rough?
Say hello to my little friend.
With a little help from the governor.
Listen to me.
We have to go.
Listen to me, we have to get them out of there, no matter what.
Nothing will prevent them from doing their job.
Double the action.
Get down!
Triple the excitement.
Get down again!
This summer, nothing will stand in their way.
I'm gonna make them run off again.
Two hosts, one podcast.
EnglishPod.
Coming to a theater near you.
Wow, so it sounds like a really good movie.
I know, when's it coming out?
I think in 2015.
Okay, I'll put that in my calendar.
Okay, let's take a look at the vocabulary we saw in this dialogue in Language Takeaway.
In Language Takeaway today, we have three words.
What's our first one?
Survival.
Well, survival is continuing to live even in really hard times.
It comes from the verb to survive.
Right, so survival is the noun form.
Right, so maybe you are lost in the jungle and you have to fight for survival.
Right, you have to try to survive.
Okay, our next word, defend.
Defend.
So let's listen to some examples of defend so you can understand the meaning.
We have to defend the castle.
The army is trying to kill the king.
The soldiers defended the base in a difficult battle.
These new machine guns will defend us.
So basically it's to protect, right?
Right, to protect from something that is really harmful.
Okay, so you would defend your children, you would defend your...
Your house.
Or your castle.
Your dog, your cat.
Okay, and our last word on Language Takeaway, rough.
Rough.
R-O-U-G-H, rough.
Right, it's got that uff sound.
So it basically means...
So when something is rough, it's a little bit violent.
And hard.
Hard.
For example, boxing is a rough sport.
Or hockey is also a rough sport.
So you have rough sports or maybe even a person can be a little bit rough.
Yes, or that person can play rough.
Play rough, exactly.
So rough.
Okay, so we're ready to listen to our dialogue again.
And this time it'll be a little bit slower so you can understand the language a little
bit more clearly.
They only had one chance.
And their chance was to fight back.
Okay, you want to play rough?
Get down.
Get down again.
I'm going to make him an offer he can't refuse.
EnglishPod, coming to a theater near you.
So we saw some interesting phrases in this dialogue.
Let's take a look at them in Fluency Builder.
The first phrase that we saw, at all costs.
At all costs.
So let's listen to some examples before we explain at all costs.
I'll protect my kids at all costs.
We have to get this project done at all costs.
You find those criminals at all costs.
Well, if you're going to protect your kids at all costs,
you're going to protect them even if it's really hard.
Right, it doesn't matter how hard it is or what you have to do.
You'll do it at all costs.
Now let's take a look at our second phrase for Fluency Builder.
And it's very similar to at all costs.
Yeah, really similar.
No matter what.
For example, I'm going to go on vacation no matter what my boss says.
Nothing's going to stop you.
If he says no, I'm still going on vacation.
And I'm going to protect my kids no matter what.
I don't have kids though.
But you will protect them no matter what.
If I had them.
And our last phrase, stand in their way.
Stand in their way.
So let's listen to some examples of stand in someone's way.
And then we'll come back and explain it.
Don't let anything stand in the way of your goals.
I'm going to find that guy and nothing is going to stand in my way.
I don't care what happens.
I'm going to get that money and you better not stand in my way.
So when something stands in your way, it's.
It's preventing you from reaching your goal.
From reaching your goal, right.
But we can also have somebody standing in your way physically.
Like really you're standing close to me and I can't pass through the door.
So maybe the person is at the door and it's standing in my way.
I can't go in.
But here we're not really talking about a real thing, right.
That you can touch.
It's more of some obstacle that's preventing you from reaching your goals
or from doing what you want to do.
And now you can understand these words that we've just talked about.
Look.
Two people possess a secret so valuable, so powerful,
they have to defend it at all costs.
We have to get them out of there.
I'm going to make them an offer again, people.
Two hosts.
One podcast.
Coming to a theatre near you.
I know that you're a big movie fan, right?
Yeah, I'm a big movie fan.
I usually watch maybe three or five movies a week.
How do you like the movie?
I love the movie.
You like the movie?
Many students of English like to watch movies as a way to improve their English.
That's one of the best ways to learn English is through songs and movies.
What do you think are some useful movies that people can watch to practice English?
Well, I would recommend children's movies.
Yeah, they have simple vocabulary, but they have very common language.
And also, what's happening in the movie is very easy to understand and to follow.
So you can see the action and then hear the word.
So if you like to watch movies, rent a DVD or go buy a DVD, watch it in the original language with English subtitles.
So you should watch it in English.
With English subtitles.
Yeah, and what are subtitles?
Subtitles are the words that you see at the bottom of the screen that translate what the people are saying.
Yeah, that's the best thing to do.
Try that exercise.
If you have a pen and paper with you, it's much better.
You can pause the movie, write down a word you don't understand, and then maybe review it later.
That's a really good tip.
I always tell my students that they should watch movies, listen to music, read the newspaper, and write down at least five new words or phrases a week.
Yeah, yeah, it's a really good exercise and you'll improve a lot.
So everyone, we want you to go out and watch a movie in English.
Turn on the subtitles and write down some new vocabulary.
And if you have any comments or questions or maybe even suggestions, you can come to our website at EnglishPod.com and leave them in our community page.
Marco and I are always around to help you and we love to hear about what you're learning and what movies you're watching.
So we're out of time today.
We'll see you guys next time.
Until then, it's...
And today with Erica, we're bringing you a great lesson about time.
You need more of it.
We need more time, right?
So we're going to be teaching you how you can ask for more time.
If you're working on a project at work and you can't finish it on time, you have to ask
your boss for more time.
So in our dialogue, Casey needs more time to put together a press kit.
What's a press kit?
A press kit is something the marketing department will put together.
Basically pictures, logos, information about the company.
So when a newspaper or a magazine wants to write an article about them, so they have
something already prepared that they could give the newspaper or magazine.
And as always, it's going to be at a normal speed, so it might be a little bit difficult
to understand.
We'll come back in one minute and tell you about some of the key language.
So Casey, how are things going with the photos for the press kit?
Yeah, I've been meaning to talk to you about that.
I might need to ask for an extension on that deadline.
You've had over a month to get this finalized.
Why are things delayed?
Well, the thing is, we ran into a lot of problems.
I'm not looking for excuses here.
I just want to get this finished on time.
And I apologize for the delay.
But some things were just beyond my control.
I had trouble booking the photographer.
And then Michael was sick for three weeks.
So I couldn't include him in the photos.
And the design team lost all the files.
So I had to redo the pictures.
I'm not going to put this off any longer, Casey.
I want those photos ASAP.
So Casey is in trouble, I think.
Yeah, I think her boss is pretty upset.
So let's take a look at some of the language that we saw in this dialogue in Language Takeaway.
First word today is deadline.
Deadline.
So, Erika, what's a deadline?
It is the last possible date to do something.
So for example, when we were in school, our teacher would send us homework and say it
was for Friday.
So the deadline was Friday.
Was Friday, right?
Or when you're at work, you have projects that you have to finish by a certain date.
That's your deadline.
Okay, let's look at our next word.
Extension.
So extension and deadline go together, right?
If you can't reach your deadline or you can't make your deadline, you must ask for an extension.
An extension.
So you ask for more time.
So extension is moving the deadline in the future.
Alright, interesting.
Let's look at our next word.
Ran into.
Ran into some problems.
So we ran into some problems in this dialogue.
Let's listen to some more examples of run into so we can understand the meaning.
We ran into a storm on our way home.
If you're not careful now, you're going to run into a lot of problems later.
I ran into some trouble with my computer.
Okay, good example.
So it's clear now, right?
If you run into problems, you meet some problems.
Many students say it in that way.
I met some problems.
Yeah, but that's wrong.
So you would say I ran into some problems.
I met some problems is wrong, wrong, wrong.
Okay, don't say met some problems.
I ran into some problems.
I ran into.
And our last word for language takeaway, delayed.
Delayed.
So when something is delayed, it's late.
Late.
And the opposite is...
On time.
So your flight was delayed.
Or your flight was on time.
The project was delayed.
Or your project was on time.
Clear.
So now let's go back to the dialogue.
Let's listen to it again.
And this time it will be a little bit slower so you can understand some of these phrases
And then Michael was sick for three weeks so I couldn't include him in the photos.
And the design team lost all the files so I had to redo the pictures.
Okay, so there were some really useful phrases that we saw in this dialogue.
Yeah, some wonderful phrases that you can use when you want to ask for more time.
Okay, so let's look at these phrases in Fluency Builder.
Alright, what's our first phrase?
I've been meaning to talk to you.
I've been meaning to.
Okay, we have some really great examples of how you can combine I've been meaning to with
different verbs.
Yeah, let's listen.
I'm sorry I haven't called you yet.
I've been meaning to, but I've been busy.
I've been meaning to tell you, but John quit yesterday.
I've been meaning to see that film for a while.
I've been meaning to go to that restaurant, but I haven't had time.
So you've been wanting to for a long time.
I've been thinking about it.
I've been planning to do it.
But you just haven't done it.
I haven't done it, maybe because I haven't had time or money.
Okay, good phrase.
Our next phrase is beyond my control.
Beyond my control.
It's beyond my control.
So it means that I can't control it.
You can't do anything about it.
I can't do anything about it.
The weather is beyond my control.
Right, or relate with this project because Jane was sick for one month.
It was beyond my control.
Okay, it wasn't your fault.
It was my fault.
And our last phrase for fluency builder, put this off.
Put this off.
So let's listen to some more examples of put this off before we explain the meaning.
I've been putting off this project for a week and it's due tomorrow.
Can we put off our meeting until next week?
I'm too busy right now.
I've been putting off my email all day and now I have 50 messages to respond to.
So Marco, when you put something off, you leave it for later.
I'm going to write a report today, but I'm going to put it off till tomorrow.
So you're going to do it tomorrow.
I'll do it tomorrow.
Okay, so we've seen some really great words and some really good phrases.
So now let's listen to our dialogue for the last time and then we'll come back and talk
some more.
Well, the thing is we ran into a lot of problems.
And I apologize for the delay, but some things were just beyond my control.
I had trouble booking the photographer and then Michael was sick for three weeks, so
I couldn't include him in the photos.
And the design team lost all the files, so I had to redo the pictures.
Well, Marco, do you think that Casey's reasons for being late are good?
I think so, because it wasn't really her fault, the whole situation with the photographer.
And then one of her co-workers was sick for three weeks.
It's not really her fault, right?
Right, but maybe the boss thinks that she's making excuses.
Maybe she's making excuses.
That's really common.
Like, for example, when we were kids, you would say, oh, you know, my dog ate my homework.
Right, but that really happened to me once.
Your dog ate your homework?
My cat ate my homework.
Your cat ate your homework?
What did your teacher say?
Well, actually, I was a really good student, so my teacher believed me.
Well, my teacher wouldn't have believed me.
She would have called my parents, most likely.
My cat really did eat my homework, and I just left it on the table, and it chewed it all
up.
That's weird.
Why would your cat do that?
A lot of weird excuses out there.
I was abducted by aliens.
My mom accidentally mailed my homework to Africa.
This happened to you?
Writing, creative excuses.
Well, I want to hear from our listeners.
I want to know what excuses they've used for being late with something.
So send us your excuses, send us your comments and questions.
Go to our website at EnglishPod.com, where Eric and I are always there to answer your
questions.
That's right, Marco, and this is an elementary lesson, right?
But we also have intermediate and upper intermediate and advanced lessons for you more fluent English
speakers.
So if you're listening to us on iTunes, be sure to visit our website and come see what
else we have to offer.
Well, I think we're out of time, but until next time, it's goodbye.
And today we're going to be talking about a very special topic.
This topic was actually suggested by one of our listeners.
So keep those comments coming because we want to create lessons that you need, that
you want.
So what are we talking about today?
Today's lesson is about applying for a visa.
A very, very important topic.
And specifically, it's about a visa interview.
As you all probably know, when you apply for a visa, especially for the US, you have an
interview.
Where you have to answer some questions.
And that's what we're going to be talking about today.
So before we jump into the dialogue, let's take a look at vocabulary preview.
So let's talk about visa.
A visa, it's not a credit card.
No, not visa or MasterCard.
A visa is an official document that you get in your passport that allows you to travel
legally to a country.
So with this document, you can go into a country.
So we have different types of visas.
Today we're going to be talking about a B2 visa.
A B2 visa is a tourist visa.
A tourist visa.
This is only for the United States.
Other countries may have different classifications for their visas, but B2 is for the United
States.
So we have a tourist visa when we want to be a tourist and just travel in the US.
What about a resident visa?
Well, you can have a temporary resident visa.
Like for example, an F1.
An F1 is for foreign exchange students who go and live in the States maybe for a year
or do a MBA for two years or three years.
So that's an F1 visa.
You can also get a J1 visa, which is a temporary exchange visitor.
So that would be to maybe do some temporary work for two or three months and then go back
to your country.
So basically a resident visa allows you to live in that country.
You can live in that country legally for a determined time.
So let's listen to our dialogue.
Where are we going to be exactly?
In this dialogue, we're going to hear two people, a visa officer and a person who's
applying for the visa.
Now, the person who's applying for the visa has an accent, right?
So that's really good practice for helping you to understand people with different accents.
So let's listen to the dialogue and then we'll come back and explain all the great vocabulary.
So you're applying for a B2 visa.
Where's your final destination and what's the purpose of your trip to the United States?
I'm going to visit my brother.
He's just had a baby.
He lives in Minneapolis.
And how long do you plan to remain in the United States?
I'll be here for approximately three weeks.
So here's my return ticket for the 26th of March.
And who's sponsoring your trip?
My brother here.
This is an invitation letter from him.
I will stay with him and his family in their home.
Tell me about the ties you have to your home country.
Well, I own a house.
Actually, I'm leaving my dog there with my neighbors.
I have a car at home.
I know my job.
I'm employed by Tornell as an engineer.
Actually, I only have three week vacation.
So I have to go back to work at the end of March.
And what evidence do you have that you are financially independent?
Well, I do have assets in my country.
Like I said, I own a house and see, here's a bank statement showing my investments and
my bank balance.
I'm sorry, sir.
We cannot grant you a B2 visa at this time.
Instead, you are granted a resident visa.
Congratulations.
You are the millionth person to apply for a visa.
You win.
What a lucky guy.
He applied for a tourist visa and now he's getting a resident visa.
Yeah, that's that's great.
But does this really happen?
It doesn't happen at a consulate.
Well, we can we can dream that this might happen for us.
Let's take a look at the words in Language Takeaway today.
On Language Takeaway, we have sponsoring.
Sponsoring.
So, Erika, what does it mean to sponsor somebody?
When you sponsor somebody for a visa, you take care of them and make sure they have
enough money.
So, you are the one who's responsible for all of their expenses and making sure they
just have enough money.
So, for example, when I was 16, I made a trip to another country.
And my parents were my sponsors.
So, they took responsibility for your money.
Invitation Letter.
Now, this is a really important part for a visa application.
Very important.
What is an Invitation Letter?
Well, an Invitation Letter is a formal letter that a friend or a relative or maybe a business
writes to ask you to come to their country.
So, you're being invited for a specific purpose to the United States.
And you have to give this letter to the visa officer.
Our next word.
Ties.
What are ties?
It looks exactly like tie, like the one you wear in your suit.
Not quite the same though.
So, what are ties?
The ties you have to your country are the things that keep you attached to your country.
That make sure that you will return to your country.
So, what are some examples of ties?
Like maybe a house or a wife or a child or maybe some money in your bank account.
Or a job even.
So, a good way to think of this is imagine like a rope that's attached to you and tying
you to your country, to your house, to your job, to your kids.
So, you can't run away.
That was clear but let's listen to some more examples of how we would use ties.
I sold my house and closed my bank account.
I don't have any more ties to my home country.
Alvin enjoyed being single.
He wasn't ready for the ties of family life.
Diplomatic relations have improved and the ties between the two countries are stronger.
Financially independent.
So that means that you don't need anyone.
That you have enough money.
You have enough money for yourself.
So, you don't have to ask your parents to pay for your ticket or pay for your food or
whatever.
And our last word for today.
Assets.
So, your assets are kind of like your ties.
So, things of value that you own.
Things that are expensive that you own in your home country.
So, it would be a house.
Maybe stocks.
Stocks.
Or investments.
So, all of those things are your assets.
So, we've seen a lot of great words and I think it's time for us to listen to our dialogue
again.
We're going to slow it down for you.
So, you'll understand it a little bit better.
Where is your final destination and what is the purpose of your trip to the United States?
Because how long do you plan to remain in the United States?
See, here's my return ticket for the 26th of March.
And who is sponsoring your trip?
My brother.
Here.
I'll stay with him and his family in their home.
Actually I'm leaving my dog there with my neighbors.
I know, my job.
I'm employed by Torneo as an engineer.
Actually, I only have three weeks vacation.
Like I said, I own a house.
And see, here's a bank statement showing my investments and my bank balance.
Congratulations!
You win!
Yay!
Okay, today we're not going to do a regular toolkit like fluency builder or putting it
together.
No, we're going to do something a little bit different today.
We're going to talk about the questions you will probably be asked at an interview for
a US visa.
And the useful language that you can use to answer these questions in a good way.
Okay, so let's take a look at our first question.
So this is probably going to be the first question the interviewer is going to ask you.
Yeah, so Marco, I know you have a lot of experience with US visas.
How should we answer this question?
Well, it depends on what you're doing, right?
So, if you're a tourist, you would say, I'm going on vacation to New York or anywhere.
Also, if you're visiting a family member, like in our dialogue, you would say, oh, I'm
going to visit my sister or my brother or my cousin.
If you're applying for a business visa, then you would say, oh, I'm going to visit a company
or etc.
So you just have to say why you are going to the States.
Now, is it important to be really specific?
Yeah, the more specific you are, it's probably better.
So if you can name the state and the city where you're going, it's much better.
So let's listen to our next question.
How long do you plan to remain in the United States?
Okay, so this is a really important question also because in your application, you have
to put how long you plan to stay in the US.
It's a pretty straightforward answer.
You know, two months, one month, three weeks.
But you just have to make sure that your answer matches what's written in your application
form.
Okay, now let's take a look at our last question.
Well, I think this is maybe the most important question that they'll ask you, right?
Yeah, this is the most important question.
This is what the interviewer is most interested in.
So why is he interested in this?
Because he has to be sure that you will not become an illegal immigrant to the United
So that you will return to your home country.
He or she has to be convinced that you're going to return to your home country.
So how can you convince him?
Basically, by demonstrating your ties.
So showing the things that will pull you back to your home country.
So if you take documents to support this, bank statements, maybe a copy of your mortgage.
Yeah, like maybe your wedding certificate.
I don't know, even a letter from your office, from your job.
So that shows that you have to return to your work.
The more things you bring, the better, even though the interviewer might not ask for the
documents.
Okay, it's just better to be safe, right?
So come with a huge file full of things.
I've had friends who've arrived to the embassy with a huge file of documents and weren't
asked to show any of the documents.
But other interviewers will maybe ask for it.
Okay, so now let's listen to the dialogue again.
And you'll hear how our traveler answers these questions.
Well, I hope this was a useful lesson for all of our listeners because I'm sure that
in one point or another, in the future, you're going to apply for a visa.
So now you know all the language that you need to more or less answer all these questions
that you're going to be asked.
And I'm sure that people have already applied for visas for the US, right?
Probably, yeah.
And I want to hear from our users any stories that they have about applying for a visa.
Yeah, that would be great.
I know that I have some stories to share on the comments board.
And we want to hear your questions and comments and any suggestions.
So visit our website at EnglishPod.com and Marco and I will be there to respond to you
and answer your questions.
Well, everyone, thanks for listening and until next time.
And we're bringing you another great elementary lesson for all our elementary learners.
You know what, Marco?
I think this lesson is so useful.
This is language that you can actually use every single day.
Exactly, every day.
Exactly, because today we're going to be teaching you small talk.
So what is small talk?
Well, small talk is small conversations that you would have with people that you don't
know very well, but you still want to be polite.
And you want to maybe just chat a little bit.
Okay, so let's listen to our dialogue.
And as always, it's going to be a little bit fast, but don't worry about it.
Because we'll come back in a minute and help you with some of the difficult language.
Morning.
Hi there, Mr. Anderson.
How are you on this fine morning?
Fine.
It sure is cold this morning, isn't it?
I barely even got out of bed.
Yeah, it's pretty cold, all right.
Did you catch the news this morning?
I heard that there was a fire in Byron Street.
No, I didn't hear about that.
Did you happen to watch the football game last night?
The Patriots scored in the last minute.
No, I don't like football.
Oh, by the way, I saw you with your daughter at the office Christmas party.
She's really beautiful.
She's my wife.
Oh, here's my floor.
Nice talking to you.
Oh, sir, this is the 56th floor.
We're on the 70th.
That's okay.
I'll take the stairs.
Okay, I think this guy was a little bit annoying.
Yeah, Mr. Anderson really didn't want to talk to him, did he?
Yeah, I think that was pretty obvious.
He left the elevator in a hurry.
Okay, let's take a look at our language today in Language Takeaway.
All right, what do we have today in Language Takeaway?
Well, we've got four words and phrases and our first one is barely even.
Barely even.
So how do we use barely even?
It's a little bit difficult.
It's really similar to like almost couldn't or almost nothing or almost can't.
So we use it usually in a negative sense.
For example, I could say, I was so busy today, I could barely even eat my lunch.
Okay, so I can maybe say, it was so dark, I could barely even see.
Or I'm so poor, I can barely even pay my rent.
Okay, good.
All right, let's take a look at our next one.
Catch.
Did you catch the news?
So by did you catch the news, you mean did you hear the news?
So how else can we use this?
Did you catch?
A really common one is, I didn't catch your name.
Yeah, I didn't hear your name.
I didn't hear your name.
Yeah, and we can also say, I didn't catch what he said.
I didn't catch what he said, yeah.
So I didn't hear.
By the way.
Okay, so let's listen to some examples first of how we can use by the way and then we'll
come back and talk more about it.
Are you going to be at the meeting today?
Yeah, I'll be there.
Oh, by the way, did you hear what happened today?
By the way, I almost forgot to tell you, Maggie called.
Okay, so I see that when we say by the way, we're introducing a point after we've already
talked about something.
Exactly, and maybe it's not even related to the topic we were talking about.
No, it's a different topic.
Different topic, right?
It's like saying, oh, I almost forgot to tell you.
So it's like, oh, Erica, don't forget we have a meeting today.
Oh, and by the way, I like your new haircut.
Thanks, Marco.
All right, see?
That's the way you would use by the way.
Okay, and our last word on language takeaway.
Take the stairs.
So it doesn't mean you're going to take them somewhere.
No, no, you're not taking them home with you.
It means you're going to go up the stairs.
Okay, so take the stairs.
Yes, a lot of people might say use the stairs or go up the stairs, but our EnglishPod learners,
they know, right?
To use take the stairs.
Okay, so now we're ready to listen to our dialogue again.
We're going to slow it down a little bit.
And this will help you to catch these phrases a little bit better.
Fine, thank you.
It's pretty cold, all right.
Okay, so now let's take a look at ways to start up some small talk in putting it together.
So Marco, today we've got some great patterns or structures that you can use in your small
talk.
We saw some great patterns.
It sure is cold this morning.
It sure is cold.
Okay, so we can change it up a little bit and say, it sure is hot.
Or it sure is late.
Okay, this sure is interesting.
Or you could say, he sure is smart.
So basically, you can change the adjective.
Cold, hot, smart, hard, difficult.
And when you say, sure is, this is a great way of emphasizing that you believe this adjective
to be true.
Okay, it sure is.
Now what would be the answer to this?
Well, in the dialogue, Mr. Anderson said, yeah, it's pretty cold, all right.
So again, using the examples we used before, we can say, oh, it's pretty hot, all right.
Or it's pretty late, all right.
Or he's pretty smart, all right.
Or this is pretty interesting, all right.
So it means you're agreeing with that person.
So Marco, these things, it sure is blank and yeah, it's blank, all right.
These can go together really well, can't they?
Yeah, as a question and answer format, they go well.
So why don't we listen to some examples of how these two phrases work together.
It sure is a nice day today.
Yeah, it's nice, all right.
The bus is sure late today.
Yeah, it's late, all right.
This class is really hard.
Yeah, it's hard, all right.
Okay, so now let's take a look at our next word and putting it together.
Did you happen to...
Did you happen to see Bob this morning?
I didn't happen to see Bob.
So it means like...
Like, did you by chance...
By chance, did you by chance see Bob or something.
Another example would be, did you happen to go to that restaurant I recommended?
Or maybe, do you happen to have a pen?
Do you happen to know where the bathroom is?
Yeah, that's a really useful one.
That's a good useful one.
That's basically how you would use this structure.
Do you happen to...
So now let's listen to our dialogue for the third time and I'm sure that you'll be able
By the way, I saw you with your daughter at the office Christmas party.
All right, Marco, that was a really useful dialogue for daily life, wasn't it?
Yeah, I think you can find a lot of useful language there and that you can apply tomorrow.
Well, speaking of useful things, let's talk a little bit about our website.
Yeah, be sure to go to our website at EnglishPod.com where you can find other lessons as well.
Maybe you're an intermediate student or advanced.
Yes, so we've got intermediate, advanced, upper intermediate lessons on our website.
And a lot of other resources that you can explore.
So be sure to come to our website and leave all your comments because Erica and I are
always there and we're really happy to answer all of your questions.
But until next time, goodbye.
And today we're bringing you part four of our romantic series called I'm Sorry I Love
You.
Yeah, and today we've got some drama, don't we?
We got a lot of drama and we got a lot of useful language.
Yeah, we're going to learn some phrases we can use to describe a mistake and we're also
going to learn how we can comfort someone.
We can make them feel better.
Okay, exactly.
So in our dialogue today, Veronica and her boyfriend are on a break.
So what does it mean to be on a break?
Well, it means you stop having a romantic relationship for a short time.
So you can say we are on a break.
So we're not dating.
We're not dating.
But we don't date.
Or we could say, let's take a break.
So we've got the state, on a break, and the action, take a break.
Let's take a break.
Okay, so let's listen to our dialogue and it's going to be a little bit fast and the
girl, I think she's crying.
It'll be a little bit difficult to understand.
But Marco and I will come back in a minute and we'll talk about some of the difficult
language here.
So I said, let's take a break.
And since that night, I've been waiting for him to call, but I still haven't heard from
him.
You don't think he's seeing someone else, do you?
Come on, don't be so dramatic.
I'm sure everything is going to work out just fine.
You think so?
How could he do this to me?
I'm sure he's cheating on me.
Why else wouldn't he call?
But you two are on a break.
Theoretically, he can do whatever he likes.
He's the love of my life.
I really messed this up.
Come on, hon, pull yourself together.
It's going to be all right.
But I still love him and it's all my fault.
I can't believe how immature and selfish I was being.
I mean, he is a firefighter.
It's not like he can just leave someone in a burning building and meet me for dinner.
I totally messed this up.
You know what, Veronica?
I think you should make the first step.
I'm sure he'll forgive you.
No, this is not going to happen.
I ruined everything.
Hey, do you hear something?
Guess what, it's your lovely firefighter.
Don't you know I sit around with my head hanging down and I wonder who...
Wow, that's a romantic boyfriend singing in the street.
Yeah, yeah, that's amazing.
Have you ever done that for a girl?
Well, have you ever sung to a girl at KTV?
I've sung to a girl on KTV.
And karaoke.
Karaoke, yeah.
So, but not so much as on the street with all the neighbors coming out to see me.
Wow, okay, well, I don't blame you.
All right, let's take a look at the language that we saw in our dialogue on Language Takeaway.
All right, so let's take a look at our first word, seeing someone.
Seeing someone.
So, if I'm seeing someone...
You're dating them.
I'm dating them.
I'm frequently going out with that person.
So, but it's not very serious.
No, it is serious.
But not really, it's more of a casual thing.
It's not very exclusive.
So, if you are seeing someone, then you can also see another person.
Well, I think sometimes seeing someone can mean actually they're your boyfriend or girlfriend.
Like I'm seeing John, he's my boyfriend.
Yeah, see, this is the difficult thing about seeing someone is that for some people it
means it's really serious, while for other people it means it's more casual.
I guess it's important that you and your boyfriend or girlfriend share the same view on the meaning
of this word.
Right, have to agree on what seeing someone means.
Okay, well, what's our next word, Marco?
Cheating on.
Cheating on someone.
Cheating on me.
Okay, so if you're cheating on someone.
Then you are like kissing or even having sex with someone who's not your boyfriend or
your husband or your girlfriend or your wife.
So, if I say, she cheated on me.
That means that my girlfriend kissed or had sex with another guy.
But if I say, she cheated me.
Yeah, that's different.
That's different, right?
Like, maybe she sold you something for a really high price.
She cheated me.
Or maybe she sold me something that was fake.
Yeah, or broken or something.
So, cheated on is really different from cheated.
Messed this up.
So, Marco, this is a phrasal verb and that means we can sort of switch it around a little
bit, right?
So, let's listen to some examples and then we can come back and talk some more.
I messed up on the exam and now I won't pass my class.
When I'm cooking, I always mess up and burn the rice.
Okay, so messed up.
It's pretty clear, I think.
All right, let's take a look at our next word.
Immature.
So, when someone is immature...
They're acting really young.
Really young, right?
But it's not a very good thing to be immature.
No, it has a negative meaning.
It's normal for children to be immature.
Because they're children.
Right, but not an adult.
So, we've got some examples that will help you to understand this word a little bit better.
Your toilet jokes are not funny.
Stop being so immature.
Jeannie acts like she's 16.
She's so immature.
You and your friends always act so immature.
All right, so immature.
Now let's take a look at our next word.
Selfish.
So, a selfish person...
Is a person who only thinks about themselves.
Okay, so I only think about me.
No one else.
Yeah, you don't care about other people's feelings.
So, it's not a good thing to be immature or selfish.
Okay, so I think it's time for us to listen to our dialogue again.
And this will help you to understand these phrases a little bit more clearly.
And since that night, I've been waiting for him to call.
But I still haven't heard from him.
Don't be so dramatic.
How can he do this to me?
But you two are on a break, theoretically.
He can do whatever he likes.
I've really messed this up.
Come on, hun.
Pull yourself together.
But I still love him.
And it's all my fault.
I've totally messed this up.
This is not going to happen.
I've ruined everything.
It's your lovely firefighter.
Okay, so we saw Veronica's friend trying to calm her down.
Yeah, trying to comfort her.
Okay, to make her feel better.
Let's take a look at some of the phrases she used in Fluency Builder.
Okay, so what was the first phrase that she said?
Everything is going to work out just fine.
It's going to be okay.
It's going to be okay, right?
Yeah, the problem will be solved.
Okay, so if somebody is worried or somebody is crying, you can say, don't worry, everything
is going to work out just fine.
Okay, let's look at the next one.
So what does that mean exactly?
It sounds kind of weird.
I know, I guess it just means stop crying, relax, and take a deep breath.
Just like calm down.
Get organized with your ideas and your thoughts.
So you can think of maybe somebody who's got tears down their face and everything is sort
of in a mess.
If you pull it together, they clean up and they sort of relax, right?
All right, and the last phrase that we saw, it's going to be all right.
So it's going to be all right means everything is going to be okay.
Yeah, it's going to be fine.
It's going to be fine.
The problem will go away.
You'll feel better.
Maybe you could even say, it'll be all right.
It'll be all right.
These are three really helpful phrases that you can use when you want to say something
nice to a friend or a colleague who has a problem.
Very useful language.
So let's listen to some more examples.
Don't worry, everything is going to work out just fine.
I'm sure he still loves you.
Everything is going to be all right.
We'll find your puppy.
Okay, great examples and I think it's clear now.
So let's listen to our dialogue again and then we'll come back and talk some more.
Come on, hon.
Okay, I really like this dialogue.
It's so romantic.
It's romantic but at the same time romantic.
So we want to know what you think will happen next.
Yeah, will they get back together?
Will they get married?
Will they have a baby?
Maybe they'll break up forever.
Maybe she'll move halfway across the world.
Anything can happen so let us know what you think will happen.
Come to our website at EnglishPod.com and leave your comments on the lesson page.
Exactly, and maybe you'll be right.
Yeah, you never know.
Okay, so we're out of time for today.
I hope you guys had fun and we'll see you next time.
Hello everyone, welcome to another great lesson with us here at EnglishPod.
And today we're going to be talking about an ER, an emergency room.
Exactly, we're bringing you our very own ER drama here at EnglishPod.
Yeah, doctor shows are very popular with people, medical terms and all that stuff.
Yeah, so we're going to teach you some words that you might hear commonly in medical shows
on TV or in movies.
This is really common language in television.
Or even at a hospital, right?
Well yeah, but let's hope our listeners don't have to face this.
Okay, so let's preview some words in Vocabulary Preview.
Alright, so what's our first word?
Okay, the first word is CPR.
CPR.
So, that's pretty easy, what does that mean?
Well, it's short for cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
If that means anything to you.
Well cardio is related to the heart.
Cardio refers to the lungs.
Resuscitation means to come back to life.
Yes, so basically CPR is, you know when someone stops breathing, you put your mouth on their
mouth and you breathe inside their lungs.
Okay, to give them air.
So, CPR.
That's CPR.
Okay, so let's take a look at our next word, BP.
BP.
So, BP is short for?
Blood pressure.
That's just the way that doctors use it in the emergency room.
Exactly, pretty simple.
Okay, so blood pressure.
And our last word, acute respiratory failure.
Acute respiratory failure.
So, what is that exactly?
That sounds complicated.
Basically it's really serious, they stop breathing.
You stop breathing.
So, if you go into acute respiratory failure, then the doctor or somebody has to perform
All right, cool.
Okay, so we've previewed these three great words, now let's listen to our dialogue for
It's going to be really fast and you're going to have a lot of drama in it, so don't worry
if you don't understand everything.
Yeah, we're going to come back and teach you some of the important language.
Help!
Are you a doctor?
My poor little Frankie, he's just stopped breathing.
Oh my gosh, help me.
I tried to perform CPR, but I just, I don't know if I could get any air into his lungs.
Oh, Frankie.
Ellen, get him hooked up to a monitor.
Somebody page Dr. Hauser.
Get the patient to hold still.
I can't get a pulse.
Okay, he's on the monitor.
His BP is falling.
He's flatlining.
No, Frankie!
Doctor, do something!
Someone get her out of here.
Get me the defibrillator.
Okay, clear.
Again, clear.
Come on, dammit, I'm not letting go of you.
I got a pulse.
Okay, what's happening?
The patient is in acute respiratory failure.
I think we're going to have to intubate.
All right, we're going to have to intubate.
I'm going to have to intubate.
Okay, we're going to have to intubate.
I'm going to have to intubiate.
Don't worry, he's not dying.
All right, tube's in.
Bag him.
Somebody give him 10 cc's shot of adrenaline.
Let's go!
People, move!
Move!
Doctor, oh thank God!
How is he?
We've managed to stabilize Frankie, but he's not out of the woods yet.
He's still in critical condition.
We're moving him to intensive care, but-
Doctor, just do whatever it takes.
I just want my little Frankie to be okay.
I couldn't imagine life without my little hamster.
Wow, so much drama over a little hamster.
Yeah, a little pet, hey?
A little pet, a little hamster.
I can relate to this owner
and I'm gonna tell you a little bit more about that later.
Yeah, I know you have a really good story about this.
Yeah, but in the meantime,
let's look at some great language in Language Takeaway.
All right, so let's take a look at our first word,
intubate.
Intubate.
So this is a medical procedure.
When a patient can't breathe properly,
sometimes the doctor takes a long tube
and puts it into their mouth and down their pipes,
I guess, down their breathing tube.
So that they can breathe better.
Okay, so that's to intubate.
Okay, so once they've intubated the patient,
they start to bag him.
Yeah, bag him.
Does that mean they like put a bag
over the person's head or something?
No, no, no, no, no.
So there's a bag attached to this intubation tube
and you squeeze it to put air into the lungs.
Okay, so you squeeze this bag
and it puts air through the tube.
I think this is just medical slang.
Yeah, I guess bag him.
Yeah, but you hear it all the time on TV,
so it's important our listeners know it.
Okay, let's look at our next word, critical condition.
Critical condition.
The patient's in critical condition.
This condition means it's serious.
Right, if a patient is in critical condition,
they're either really, really hurt or really, really sick
and they could die pretty soon.
Okay, so you don't want to be in critical condition.
Let's take a look at our next word, stabilize.
Stabilize.
So when the doctors stabilize a patient,
they take that patient out of danger.
Exactly, when a patient is stabilized,
they probably won't die in five minutes.
But they could still be really sick.
They could be in critical condition, right?
But it's under control.
Let's look at our last word, ICU.
ICU.
Intensive care unit.
Okay, that's what it means, intensive care unit.
So this is a place where patients
who are in critical condition are taken.
So what's the difference between an ICU and a regular room?
Well, I don't know, I've never been in one.
But I think like patients are monitored regularly
and I think there's, you know, maybe more,
maybe there are more nurses and fewer patients.
There's just a higher level of care.
A higher level of care.
Okay, so it's time for us to listen to our dialogue again.
Now, try to catch all of these medical terms
that we've just talked about,
and then we'll come back and explain a few phrases.
♪♪
My poor little Frankie has just stopped breathing.
I tried to perform CPR, but I just,
I don't know if I could get any air into his lungs.
His BP's falling.
Clear!
I've got a pulse.
Let's go, people, move, move!
Doctor, oh, thank God.
We've managed to stabilize Frankie,
but he's not out of the woods yet.
Okay, so there are some really good phrasal verbs
in this dialogue.
Yeah, a couple of good phrasal verbs.
Okay, so let's take a look at these phrasal verbs
in putting it together.
All right, so what's our first phrasal verb today?
Hook up.
So to hook up.
So when we talk about hooking something up,
we are usually talking about something that's
we are usually talking about electronics, right Marco?
Yeah, you usually hook up your TV or your computer.
So why don't we listen to some examples
of how we would use hook up.
I finally got a Nintendo Wii.
Come on, help me hook it up to the TV.
I don't know how to hook up this new DVD player.
Can you help me?
I just hooked up my new HDTV.
Wanna come over and watch a movie?
Great, so you can see that there are a few different
variations of this pattern here with the word hook up
because it's a phrasal verb.
And I think the same patterns can apply
to our next phrasal verb.
Hold still.
So the doctor needed the patient to hold still.
Right, to stop moving.
Stop moving, exactly.
Okay, let's listen to some more examples of hold still
because again, it's a really great phrasal verb
that you can change up a little bit.
If you don't hold still,
I can't see if you have something in your eye.
Hold still while she cuts your hair
or else she might make a mistake.
Hold still, you have a bee on your back.
Okay, hold still, great word.
All right, one final phrase for you.
Out of the woods.
So when someone's out of the woods, they're...
Free from danger.
Uh-huh, safe.
Okay, safe.
I guess it's kind of a saying.
Like I'm out of the woods, I'm free, I'm safe.
I guess there are two variants of this phrase.
We can say, I'm out of the woods or we're out of the woods
or I guess we're not out of the woods yet.
Uh-huh, so, okay.
Okay, so now it's time for us to listen to our dialogue
again and when we come back,
Erica's gonna tell us about her ER story.
Help, are you a doctor?
I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
Patient is in acute respiratory failure.
Alright, tube's in.
We're moving him to intensive care, but...
Okay, Erica, so what happened?
What emergency did you have?
Well, it was with my cat.
Your cat.
Yes, I had some people over for dinner,
and it was maybe 1.30 in the morning,
and I went downstairs to let them out
and show them where the taxis were,
and then I came up and I saw that the cat was gone,
and it turned out that the cat fell out of the window.
Fell out of the window.
Alright, but our listeners have to know,
what story or what floor do you live on?
The 20th floor.
The 20th.
Yeah, so this is really dangerous, right?
That's really high up.
So I went outside and I was calling for my cat,
and I was like, Mr. Finn, where are you?
How did you know he fell out?
I just knew.
Yeah?
Mother's instinct.
So he was calling back to me, and so I picked him up
and brought him to the house,
and we had to bring him to the vet,
and it was 2.30, 3 in the morning at this time,
and the vet was not very happy that we woke him up out of bed.
But that was a really good emergency, though.
So anyway, we brought him to the vet.
He was in critical condition for a couple of days,
and then we had to keep him in the vet's ICU for about a week.
He broke his back.
He broke two of his legs.
Yeah, and so he was in the hospital for three weeks
and then at home on bed rest for another three weeks.
But now he's good as new.
Good as new.
He used up one of his seven lives.
Nine lives.
Nine?
Nine.
I think maybe eight of his nine lives.
He's only got one left.
Wow, that's an interesting story.
I guess that's the inspiration under this dialogue.
Sometimes we Anglos really treat our cats
and our hamsters and our dogs like they're our children.
No, that's good.
Well, I'm glad Mr. Finn is OK and he's
walking and good as new.
Yep, good as new.
So maybe our users have some stories about their pets
being taken to the hospital.
I want to hear.
Yeah, that should be interesting.
I've never had a pet actually break a leg or anything,
so don't have any pet stories this time.
But we want to hear what you think,
so come to EnglishPod.com, leave all your questions
and comments and your stories.
And we'll be there to answer them.
So guys, thanks for listening.
And we're bringing you a very advanced lesson today.
We're talking about another business topic, aren't we?
It's a topic that's kind of popular these days, all about efficiency and reducing costs.
So we're going to be talking about the just-in-time philosophy.
I don't know much about this philosophy, so good thing we've got Marco here.
Well, what we are going to be looking at is not really in-depth.
We're just going to be looking at some basic points of what a just-in-time philosophy would
be like in a company.
But what we're really going to be looking at is the language to do with this philosophy,
We're going to be looking at some technical terms and some other useful phrases that you
can use when you are talking in a business setting.
Well, why don't we get started with the language then?
Let's take a look at vocabulary preview.
On vocabulary preview today, we have the word lead time.
Lead time.
L-E-A-D, lead.
Like lead.
This is something that factories usually would use.
I guess lead time is the time in between point A and point B on a production schedule,
So you could have, for example, production lead time.
So that's the time between when you make an order and when the product is finished.
And you could also have delivery lead time.
So the time between when you place an order and when the product gets delivered to you.
So depending on the companies, you have different lead times.
Some are three days, other are five days, other are 45 days.
And we at EnglishPod have a two week lead time for our podcast, right?
But our delivery lead time is every other day.
Nice.
That's all we're going to be previewing today.
So why don't we just listen to the dialogue and then we'll come back and explain some
of these tricky vocabulary words that we'll see.
I called this meeting today in order to discuss our manufacturing plan.
As I'm sure you're all aware, with the credit crunch and the global financial crisis, we're
obligated to look for more cost efficient ways of producing our goods.
We don't want to have to be looking at redundancies.
So we've outlined a brief plan to implement the just-in-time philosophy.
We have two basic points that we want to focus on.
First of all, we want to reduce our lead time.
Why would we want to do that?
I think this is not an area that really needs to be worked on.
Well, we want to reduce production and delivery lead times for better overall efficiency.
Production lead times can be reduced by moving workstations closer together, reducing queue
length like, for example, reducing the number of jobs waiting to be processed at a given
machine, and improving the coordination and cooperation between successive processes.
Delivery lead times can be reduced through close cooperation with suppliers, possibly
by inducing suppliers to locate closer to the factory, or working with a faster shipping
company.
That makes sense.
The second point is that we want to require supplier quality assurance and implement a
zero-defects quality program.
We currently have far too many errors that lead to defective items, and therefore, they
must be eliminated.
A quality control at the source program must be implemented to give workers personal responsibility
for the quality of the work they do, and the authority to stop production when something
goes wrong.
I'm with you on this one.
It's essential that we reduce these errors.
We've got to force our suppliers to reduce their mistakes.
Well, let's look at how we're going to put this plan into action.
First.
Okay, so they're going to implement just in time in their company.
Yeah, I guess they're putting in some cost control measures.
So, Marco, there's some great language in here.
Why don't we look at it now in Language Takeaway?
Okay, the first word today.
Redundancies.
So this is kind of a strange word because usually a redundancy is when you're speaking,
Yeah, maybe when you say something that's already been said.
You say something that has already been said, but we also use it in the business world.
Right, and it comes from the base word redundant, right?
Meaning extra, more than what's needed.
So when a person or position is made redundant, basically it means they get laid off, right?
So redundancies are a synonym of layoffs.
Workstations.
So workstation could be anything from your desk.
Yeah, or maybe a workbench.
A workbench.
Or even a place on a production line.
So you're a certain machine or something like that.
So basically a workstation is the area where you work.
So you can say, can we get a new workstation for the new team member?
Or I could say, I want to move my workstation closer to my employees.
So workstation.
At a given machine.
At a given.
This is an interesting way to say at any machine.
So this is operating exactly the same as here, the word given is operating exactly the same
way as any.
As any.
So let's listen to some examples of how we can change it up a little bit and we can use
this given word.
In this factory, how many cars are in production at any given time?
On any given day, about 40 million people use the internet.
Firefighters have to be ready to attend an emergency at any given moment.
So any given time, at any given moment.
Um, any given day.
Now let's take a look at our last word today.
Defective.
So if something is defective.
It has a problem with it.
It has a problem.
We can say defective is an adjective.
And the noun is defect.
Defect.
So if something has a defect, it is defective.
So for example, maybe you produce chairs and you make one and this chair is missing a wheel.
So it's defective.
The defect is the missing wheel.
The defect is the missing.
And before we listen to our dialog again, I want to take a look at this phrase.
So what is that?
What does that mean exactly?
I agree with you.
I agree with you on this point.
So if you agree with somebody on a certain point, you would say, oh, I'm with you on
this one.
So now, let's listen to our dialog again and we'll come back and talk a little bit more
about the history of this just in time.
obligated to look for more cost-efficient ways of producing our goods.
We don't want to have to be looking at redundancies, so we've outlined a brief plan to implement
the just-in-time philosophy.
I think this is not an area that really needs to be walked on.
Right, production lead times can be reduced by moving workstations closer together, reducing
queue length like, for example, reducing the number of jobs waiting to be processed at
a given machine, and improving the coordination and cooperation between successive processes.
First...
All right, so Marco, I mentioned at the beginning of the lesson that I don't know much about
just-in-time, but luckily you do, right?
Yeah, I know a little bit about it.
So tell me a little bit about where this philosophy came from.
What are the origins of this idea?
It actually became really popular with Toyota, and it was called the Toyota Production System.
So many people think it's Japanese, but in reality, the Japanese got it from the United
It's a philosophy that was thought up by Ford Motor Company in order to improve their production
line.
But when the Japanese visited Ford Motor Company, it wasn't fully implemented yet, and oddly
enough, they found this philosophy working already in a piggly-wiggly.
What's a piggly-wiggly?
Piggly-wiggly was a chain of grocery stores in the United States.
I'm not sure if they're still around, but yeah, they were really big, and basically
piggly-wiggly was using this to improve their whole system of shipping and of stocking and
everything.
Okay, so how does it work?
So basically what you try to do is make your processes more efficient, reduce the amount
of space you're using, et cetera.
And this was really important for Japanese because, of course, they don't have that much
space in Japan to have these huge warehouses like in other countries.
So what you're saying is they're producing goods just for the time they need it, right?
So trying to not be overstocked or- Or have a long lead time or something.
Long lead times where you have to keep something in a warehouse, exactly.
So that's why it's so efficient.
And also it's about improving the efficiency between processes.
So what's sometimes called a bottleneck.
You can have really good processes in the beginning, but in the end, maybe you have
only one workstation that's taking all these orders and everything gets bottled up and
it causes delays.
It's slow, yeah.
So in the dialogue, they want to implement the just-in-time strategy as a way of avoiding
redundancies.
But it sounds to me like actually this might cause redundancies sometimes.
Well, yeah, sometimes it does.
Sometimes when you make workstations more efficient or when you make all your processes
work more fluidly, sometimes inevitably you will have to lay off some people that are
redundant.
Have you ever worked in a company where they've implemented just-in-time?
No, actually, I've never really worked at a place where this philosophy was working,
but I did used to work at a place where we had Six Sigma, which is a little bit similar.
Well, I guess we'll need a lesson on Six Sigma in the future.
Yeah, we'll see if we come up with Six Sigma and what it means.
It's kind of interesting, but we want to hear what you think.
Have you guys worked in a place where they use just-in-time?
Or if you have any quality control measures or how does your company avoid having defective
items or defective services?
So visit our website, EnglishPod.com.
And Marco and I are always around to respond to your comments and answer your questions.
So until then, it's-
It's a nice day.
And today we're at a party.
Yeah, this is a great, exciting, fun, energetic lesson.
We're at the biggest party in the world, Carnival in Rio.
Okay, so Rio, this is the name of a city, right?
Yeah, this is a city in Brazil called Rio de Janeiro.
So Rio de Janeiro.
Yeah, different pronunciations, right?
Yeah, yours sounds a lot more, I don't know, authentic than mine.
So we sometimes refer to it as Rio just to make it shorter.
Yeah, I think that's actually the most common way it's referred to in English.
Yeah, Rio.
It's just like if you would say Los Angeles, you would say LA.
Yeah, or if you're talking about Kuala Lumpur, you might say KL.
Same idea.
Okay, so we have some words that we're going to preview before we listen to our dialogue.
Okay, in vocabulary preview, we have one word, Sambadrome.
Sambadrome.
This is actually a building.
So it's a proper noun, not a common noun, right?
No, it's not really a common noun.
It's a proper noun, but it is a building.
And what happens in this building?
Basically, it's very similar to a stadium, but each end isn't closed off.
So you have stands on one side and stands on the other.
And you have like a little street in the middle.
So you can sit down and you can watch people parade or walk by, and you can see the dancers
and everything.
And so what is it used for?
The Sambadrome is used so that the Samba schools can present their dances and their dancers
and their costumes to judges and all the people that want to watch them dance Samba.
Okay, so you've been using this word a lot.
Samba.
What is this?
It's a dance that Brazil is famous for.
It's a very fast dance, a lot of hip movements, a lot of...
It's very fast, but it's very, very nice.
And the music is based with many different type of tropical instruments.
So it's really, really fun.
Can you Samba?
I can Samba a little bit.
It's kind of hard.
It's trickier than what it seems.
Okay, well, we're actually going to hear some Samba music in the dialogue, right?
And we're going to hear some Samba that is actually used during Carnival.
Okay, so let's go to Rio now and listen to some Samba.
I can't believe we're here.
Carnival in Rio.
Seriously.
This is like a once in a lifetime opportunity.
Can you believe it?
We're here at the biggest party in the world.
We're so lucky we found tickets for the Sambadrome.
Good thing we found that ticket scalper.
Look, it's starting.
Wow, this is amazing.
Look at how many dancers there are.
Oh my gosh.
The costumes are so colorful.
This is so cool.
It says here that the school that is dancing now is one of the oldest and most prestigious
Samba schools in Rio.
No kidding.
Look at them.
They're amazing.
Look at that girl on top of that float.
She must be the Carnival Queen.
Go over there so I can get a picture of you.
Take the picture.
Come dance with us.
No, I can't.
Really, I don't know how to dance.
Honey, I'll see you later.
Patrick, don't just leave me here.
He got asked out to dance by a beautiful Brazilian Samba dancer.
I don't think his wife was very happy though.
Well, we've got some language about Carnival in Rio, right?
So let's look at that now with Language Takeaway.
Our first word on Language Takeaway today, ticket scalper.
Ticket scalper.
This is actually a job title, I think.
Maybe not a totally legal job title.
So what does a ticket scalper do?
Basically this person will sell tickets at a higher price to people who don't have tickets.
So he buys like 100 tickets and goes and stands outside of the Samba Dome or the...
Stadium.
And he sells them for like twice the price, right?
Yeah, that's a ticket scalper.
So basically they come in handy sometimes because you want to go to a concert or something
and you don't have tickets, you got to turn to them, right?
Our next word, prestigious.
Prestigious.
Now, this is a very nice word, prestigious.
Before we explain anything, let's listen to some examples.
Harvard University is one of the most prestigious schools in North America.
The Academy Award is the most prestigious prize an actor can get in the film industry.
He worked really hard and now he is a very prestigious heart surgeon.
I can see that when something is prestigious, it's really well-respected, right?
It's well-known, well-respected.
And if you are part of this thing, you can feel a sense of pride.
Prestige.
Okay, now let's take a look at our last word, float.
Float.
Now, this doesn't mean like to float in water, right?
No, this is a noun, not a verb.
It's kind of hard to describe, actually.
Yeah, it is hard to describe.
A float is something that you commonly see in parades.
So, it'd be like a car, but you can't really see the car.
No, because it's covered with decorations.
With big decorations and it's made to look like an artificial island.
Yeah, or a tree maybe.
So you have people standing on there and dancing or waving.
We'll definitely post a picture of a float on our comment section so you could see what
a float looks like.
Now, let's listen to our dialogue again.
We're going to slow it down a little bit so you can understand all of these words we've
We're so lucky that we found tickets for the Samba Drome.
This is amazing.
Move over there so I can get a picture of you.
So now, I think we should take a look at some of the phrases.
Yeah, let's go to Fluency Builder.
So we have this phrase, once in a lifetime.
Once in a lifetime.
So this is an expression you would use to say that it doesn't happen very often.
Yeah, it's a really special event.
So like a once in a lifetime opportunity.
Or a once in a lifetime chance.
Let's look at our next phrase, good thing.
Good thing.
So we have some examples for good thing.
Why don't we listen to them and then we'll come back.
Good thing I studied for my exam.
It was really hard.
It's a good thing I brought my umbrella.
It rained the whole day.
It's a good thing that I bought my house before the prices went up.
Good thing I had money in my wallet.
You're happy you had money in your wallet.
You could also maybe use it as a negative, right?
Like good thing I didn't go.
I'm happy I didn't go because it was terrible.
Now let's take a look at our last word, no kidding.
Okay, so many of you probably already know this word kidding, right?
Yeah, it means joking.
Yeah, I'm joking.
Just kidding.
But if I would say no kidding.
You're saying like, yeah, I totally agree with you.
I know you are.
I know you're being serious.
I know it's true.
So I could say, wow, this restaurant is really expensive.
So you would agree like, yeah, for real.
So this term no kidding is slang, right?
It's a little bit informal.
So why don't we listen to our dialogue again for the third time and then we'll come back
and talk about Brazil.
We're so lucky we found time to do this.
samba schools in Rio.
She's so beautiful.
Look at that float.
She must be the carnival queen.
Woo!
All right, Marco, so carnival, it's a Brazilian celebration, right?
It's very popular in all Latin America.
Yeah, but Brazilian carnival is very, very special.
Okay, so what are they celebrating?
So basically, it's the beginning of Lent, which is this period of time in the Catholic
religion right before Easter.
But carnival in Brazil is very special because of all the dancing and all of this and costumes
Yeah, well, from the dialogue, it sounds really wild and crazy.
So what happens?
Well, it definitely is really amazing and it's just basically a lot of samba music and
partying and it's really nice and especially to be able to see something so spectacular.
It's like hundreds and thousands of dancers in the samba drum and they're parading down
in their costumes and in floats.
So it's a very, very special event.
All right, so it sounds like a lot of fun.
I want to hear from our listeners.
Yeah, for sure.
We have a lot of listeners from Brazil and carnival is not only celebrated in Rio.
It's also in Sao Paulo, in Pernambuco, in Bahia, and it's a little bit different in
each place.
So it's not just a thing of Rio.
It's just more popular there.
Is there a samba drum in each city?
Yeah, there is a samba drum in Sao Paulo.
Oh, cool.
Let us know if you've ever been to carnival or how you celebrate it in your hometown or
in your city.
Yeah, come to our website, EnglishPod.com and leave us your comments all about carnival.
And everyone, be sure to come because we're going to post some videos of what samba is
like and some photos so you can get an idea of this really interesting Brazilian celebration.
Thanks for listening and until next time.
And today we're going to be talking about a really common situation with parents.
Yeah, when you're a teenager, you always need to ask your parents for money, ask your parents
for the car, or ask your parents if you can do something.
And that's what we're going to be looking at is how you can ask for permission for the
car, for money.
And these phrases are not only for your parents, right?
No, you could use them in your office with your boss or for any situation where you need
to ask politely.
Okay, so let's take a look at Vocabulary Preview.
We have one word for you today.
Concerts.
A concert.
A concert is an event, right?
Where people play music.
So you have different types of concerts, like a rock concert.
They play rock music.
Or a pop concert.
Yeah, a pop music.
Or even a classical music concert.
Exactly, where you have people playing violins and pianos.
Okay, concert.
So concerts are always for music.
They're always for music.
Well, with that, let's go into our dialogue.
Marco, what happens here?
Well, basically we have a teenage girl who needs to go to a concert and is asking her
dad for something.
Hey, daddy.
You look great today.
I like your tie.
By the way, I was wondering, can I...
I haven't even told you what it is yet.
Okay, okay.
What do you want?
Do you think I could borrow the car?
I'm going to a concert tonight.
Um, I don't think so.
I need the car tonight to pick up your mother.
Ugh, I told you about it last week.
So you're not going to pick up your mother?
No, I'm not going to.
I'm going to a concert.
here. The first one, hottest. Hottest. Hottest. So this is the superlative of hot. Right.
So the hottest guy in school is... The most handsome... Yeah, the most sexy guy in school.
Exactly. So if somebody is hot, they are really attractive. Really good looking. Really good
looking. And so, Marco, is this a word that is only used for men? No, you can also use
it for women. And what about things? You know, recently with Paris Hilton, it's more
popular with things like, wow, I got a new car. Wow, that's hot. Right. But I guess we
maybe should tell our listeners to be careful with this word. Yeah, you don't really want
to tell somebody you're hot. No. It's not very polite. But with your friends, you can
use this word. Exactly. If I'm talking with my friends and I see a girl like, wow, she's
hot. Okay. Yeah, but just don't tell her. Yeah, don't go up to her and say, wow, you're
hot. Okay. Our next word, most popular. Most popular. Most popular. Most popular. Another
superlative. Exactly. And popular means... Means having a lot of friends. Exactly. Having
a lot of friends or being well-known. Or well-liked. Well-liked. Yeah. So in every school, there's
always like the most popular guy in school, the most popular girl. Yeah. Were you the
most popular guy? Not really. No, I wasn't the most popular guy, but I wasn't unpopular.
Okay. So that's the opposite. Yeah. So I was okay. All right. Our last phrase, fine then.
Fine then. Fine then. Fine then. Well, this is a phrase made up of two simple words, but
why don't we listen to some examples so we can understand the meaning of these two words
together? Example one. Fine then. If you won't go with me, I'll go by myself. Example two.
Fine then. If you want to break up, I don't care. Example three. You want to go out with
your friends? Fine then. Go. So you would use this when you agree with somebody, but
you're not really happy about it. Yeah. It's like saying, I agree, but I'm really angry.
Right. Maybe sometimes because you don't have a choice. Yeah. Right? Like the girl. Fine
then. Yeah. Yeah. So even though we have the word fine in there, it's not really a nice
thing to say to someone. No. No, this is definitely not one to use with your boss. Right. Yeah.
Exactly. Okay. Okay. Let's listen to our dialogue again and then we'll talk about some more
phrases. Hey daddy, you look great today. I like your tie. By the way, I was wondering,
can I? No. I haven't even told you what it is yet. Okay. Okay. What do you want? Do you
think I could borrow the car? I'm going to a concert tonight. I don't think so. I need
the car tonight to pick up your mother. I told you about it last week. Smelly toes is
playing and Eric asked if I would go with him. Who is this Eric guy? Duh. He's like
the hottest and most popular guy at school. Come on dad, please. No can do. Sorry. Fine
then. Would you mind giving me 100 bucks? No way. That's so unfair. There's a lot of
phrases in this dialogue that we can use to ask for something. Right. Exactly. And in
a very polite way. Okay. So we're going to look at three ways of asking for something
and the first way is I was wondering. I was wondering. I was wondering. So I could say
I was wondering, can I borrow your car? Yeah. Or I was wondering, can I stay at your house?
Okay. It's a very nice way to ask something. Yeah. It's like to begin a question. To begin,
yeah. All right. Let's take a look at the next one and it's basically the same thing.
Do you think I could? Do you think I could? Do you think I could? Do you think I could?
Borrow the car? Yeah. Or do you think I could use your computer? I can say I was wondering,
can I use your computer? Do you think I could use your computer? Yeah. They mean the same.
Right. Now let's look at the last one. Would you mind? Would you mind? Would you mind?
Would you mind? So I could say, would you mind holding this for me? Yep. Or would you
mind finishing this report for me? Now there's an interesting thing here that you have the
verb in a gerund form, right? Right. The ing form. Exactly. Giving, holding, finishing.
So we've got I was wondering, can I do something? Right. And would you mind doing something?
Yeah. So you have the ing. Be very, very careful. Be sure to not say, would you mind to give
me? Right. That's wrong. Right. That's wrong. Wrong, wrong, wrong. Wrong, wrong, wrong.
So you would say, would you mind giving me? Yep. Okay. Let's listen to some more examples
of these three phrases. Example one. Would you mind cooking dinner tonight? I'll be home
late. Example two. We were wondering if you could buy the tickets for us. Example three.
Do you think you can have those reports finished by today? All right. So I think it's really
clear now and it's a very useful way of asking for things. Okay. So let's listen to our dialogue
for the third time and then we'll come back and talk a little bit more. Hey daddy, you
look great today. I like your tie. By the way, I was wondering, can I? No. I haven't
even told you what it is yet. Okay. Okay. What do you want? Do you think I could borrow
the car? I'm going to a concert tonight. Um, I don't think so. I need the car tonight to
pick up your mother. I told you about it last week. Smelly toes is playing and Eric asked
if I would go with him. Who is this Eric guy? He's like the hottest and most popular guy
at school. Come on dad, please. No can do. Sorry. Fine then. Would you mind giving me
100 bucks? No way. That's so unfair. So Marco, you said that this dialogue really brought
back some memories for you. Yeah, my dad was exactly the same way. I would just say dad
and he would be like, no. So he would always cut me off before I ask anything. Sounds like
a pretty strict guy. No, but it was a lot of fun. Sometimes he would just say it just
to make me angry or something like that. Like just as a joke. Yeah, exactly. But it was
difficult to get him to lend me the car for example. Really? Oh yeah. I mean he wouldn't
just lend me the car and sometimes if he did lend me the car, then the next day he would
be like, hey, you need to wash the car or something like that. So you had to pay him
back. I had to pay him back with something. In my family, I was always allowed to borrow
the car because we lived really, really far away from the city. So there were no buses
or subway, but I always got to borrow the worst car, you know, the most terrible car.
Which led to so many problems like my car stopping working in the middle of the street,
which was never good. We did used to live a little bit further away from downtown, but
we had a good bus system. So it would just be like, take the bus, it's cheaper and stuff
like that. So I didn't really get the car that often until I bought my own or until
I had a motorcycle of my own and then problem solved. All right. Well, I want to know from
our listeners, what did they ask for from their parents? Exactly. Did you ask for the
car? Did you ask for money? Or did you ask for a pony? Did you ask for a pony? I had
a friend who had a summer home. Really? So he would ask for the keys to the summer home.
Okay. Well, come to our website, EnglishPod.com. Exactly. Leave your questions and comments.
We want to hear from you. We want to know what you think. And Erica and I are definitely
there to answer any doubts. All right. Well, guys, thanks for listening and until next
time, bye.
And we're bringing you the third part of our suspense series of New Guy in Town.
What's going to happen today?
There's still so many things that could happen.
This guy is kind of weird, right?
Oh, is he a vampire?
Like what's going on?
Yeah, and I would like to thank all of our listeners for contributing and sending out
their ideas of what they think happens in this third part.
Yeah, I especially like the story about the rabbit.
Yeah, the rabbit.
That was a good one.
As promised, we took the idea of one of our listeners and created a dialogue around it.
And this time it was a contribution of Babar Dawan.
Yeah, he gave us a great idea for this dialogue.
He gave us a really good idea.
So thank you, Babar.
And this one is for you.
In this dialogue, we're going to be looking at some hospitality vocabulary.
Yeah, some phrases you can use when you welcome someone to your house.
So we've got some language to preview.
So let's turn now to vocabulary preview.
On vocabulary preview, we have the word appetite.
So, Erika, tell us about appetite.
When you have an appetite, you're hungry or you have a desire to eat food, right?
So you can have a big appetite, a small appetite.
Really hungry, a little bit hungry.
Poison.
So poison could be a noun or a verb.
So when you poison someone, you put something in their food or maybe in their drink that
makes them really sick and maybe even makes them die.
So to poison somebody.
And the noun is actually the thing that you put inside the food or drink.
So usually poison is some sort of chemical substance.
Snakes, for example, have poison.
Yeah, in their teeth.
So if you get bitten by a snake, you'll get poisoned.
You'll get poisoned.
So let's take a look at our dialogue for the first time and see why we are talking about
poison and we'll come back and explain some great words.
Please make yourselves at home.
Let me take your coats.
Dinner's almost ready.
I hope you brought your appetite.
Your house is lovely, Armand.
Very interesting decor.
Very gothic.
I think it's amazing.
Oh, you have such good taste, Armand.
I'm thinking of redecorating my house.
Maybe you could give me a few pointers.
It would be my pleasure.
Please have a seat.
Can I offer you a glass of wine?
We would love some.
Here you are.
A very special Merlot, brought directly from my home country.
It has a unique ingredient, which gives it a pleasant aroma and a superior flavor.
It's delicious.
It's a bit bitter for my taste.
Almost tastes like... like...
Ellen?
Ellen!
Are you okay?
Did she pass out?
I hope you didn't poison her drink too much.
You'll ruin our meal.
Okay, so that was unexpected.
Lois, can you believe it?
Apparently, Lois is helping Armand.
Maybe she's a vampire.
All right, well, I really wonder what's going to happen next.
We'll see what happens next.
But now, let's take a look at some of the language in Language Takeaway.
Language Takeaway All right, so we have a couple of words in
Language Takeaway today.
Let's start off with pointers.
Pointers.
So to give somebody pointers...
You give them some suggestions.
Suggestions or tips.
So, suggestions or tips.
Let's listen to some examples of how you would use it.
I want to dance salsa better.
Can you give me a few pointers?
I need some pointers on how to be a better manager.
Let me give you a few pointers so you can pass your exam.
All right, so pointers.
Let's take a look at our next word.
Aroma.
This is a nice round word, isn't it?
Yeah, aroma.
Well, this word makes you sound really educated.
Basically, it means...
Smell.
So, for example, this coffee has a great aroma.
Or maybe this perfume has the aroma of roses and lavender.
Bitter.
B-I-T-T-E-R.
Okay, bitter.
So, bitter is the opposite of...
Of sweet.
So, it's always hard to describe taste, isn't it?
But maybe we can say a few foods that are bitter.
So, chocolate, when it has no sugar, is bitter.
Or, for example, coffee without any sugar is also bitter.
And sometimes red wine can be quite bitter.
So, bitter.
Okay, and now let's take a look at our last word.
Pass out.
It seems kind of easy.
Pass and out.
But it means something different.
Yeah, when you put them together.
What does it mean?
It means faint or become unconscious.
So, imagine someone, you know, they're standing up and then suddenly they start to move around
and then fall over to the ground.
Okay, pass out.
This usually happens when you get really, really drunk.
Sometimes also when maybe you're pregnant, you might pass out.
Okay, to lose consciousness.
Marco and I have a couple of examples of this word for you.
I drank so much last night that I passed out at my friend's house.
She was standing in the sun too long, so she passed out right in front of me.
My sister passes out whenever she sees blood.
Alright, so let's listen to our dialogue again now.
And you'll be able to hear these words that we just talked about.
Dinner is almost ready.
You have such good taste, Armand.
Maybe you could give me a few pointers?
Here you are, a very special Merlot brought directly from my home country.
It has a unique ingredient, which gives it a pleasant aroma and superior flavor.
Mmm, it's delicious.
I hope that you didn't poison her drink too much.
Alright, so interesting story.
We have some great phrases that we've used here, so let's take a look at them in Fluency
Builder.
We've got four phrases for you that are great to use when you want to welcome someone into
your house or into your office or anywhere, really.
So, why don't we take a look at the first one?
So this is a very common phrase when you invite somebody to your house.
You always use this phrase.
It's like, make yourself comfortable, relax, sit down.
Yeah, don't worry about it.
Like, my house is your house.
Make yourself at home.
Okay, good one.
Usually people arrive to a party or to a dinner with jackets, coats, scarves, all that stuff.
So this next phrase is really handy.
So that means, give me your coats and I'll put them in the closet.
And then, a good host would always offer a drink, right?
Or in this case, wine.
So they would say, can I offer you a glass of wine?
Or sometimes you could say, can I offer you a glass, can I offer you something to drink?
So, can I offer you a glass of wine?
You offer me a glass of wine, I say, yeah, sure, I'll take a glass of wine.
And then I would use our next phrase.
So, it's not saying, you are here.
It's saying to someone, here it is, take it.
This is a really, really great phrase.
A lot of people who are learning English don't say this, but it's really common, really
natural.
And if you use it, you'll sound really great.
And you can use this anytime you give someone something.
So, if you give somebody a pen or a pencil, a notebook, here you are.
Here it is.
Great words.
Let's listen to our dialogue one more time and then we'll come back.
Please, make yourselves at home.
Almost tastes like...
Okay, so Armand is a pretty good host.
He offered them a Merlot.
Yeah, which is a type of wine.
A type of wine.
And this is really interesting because there are many types of wines.
Do you know any?
I know a lot.
All right, so give us some pointers here.
Right, Merlot is probably like the most common red wine, right?
And Merlot is actually the grape variety.
The grape variety.
Varietal, as it's called in winespeak.
Wow, varietal.
Well, right now I'm really liking to drink Tempranillo, which is a Spanish wine.
Tempranillo?
And is that also the type of grape?
Oh, nice.
Usually we would say red wine or white wine, right?
But the varieties, depending on the grapes, is what gives them their names.
So we also have a couple of other, like maybe you have a Chardonnay.
White wine.
You have a Cabernet Sauvignon.
Red wine.
Red wine again.
And my personal favorite is a Carbonaire.
Oh yeah, that's a nice one.
That's a nice one.
And it's not very common anymore.
Apparently the grape isn't growing very well in France anymore or in Spain.
So from what I understand, it's only in Chile and Argentina.
But it's a really good one.
Actually, Argentina makes really good Carbonaires.
But you know who else makes good wine?
Who?
Canadians.
Canadian wine.
You almost never find it outside of Canada, but there is one region in the western part
of the country that makes really, really good wines, especially some nice Pinot Noirs and
some good white wines.
Okanagan Valley.
Check it out.
Well, what about in your countries?
Do you produce any wine or maybe any other type of drink?
Many countries have their own types of drinks, so we want to know about it.
Tell us.
And many countries have different traditions to be hospitable, to be welcoming.
Yeah, that's a good one.
So visit our website, EnglishPod.com, leave all your comments, tell us about how you welcome
people into your house.
But we got to go now, so...
Bye bye.
And today we're bringing you another great lesson and this time we're going to be shopping.
Actually a lot of our users asked for some lessons about shopping, right?
And I think one of the most important things when you go shopping is to get a good price.
So we're going to be teaching you how to bargain.
So Marco, you just mentioned a really great word.
Let's look at it in Vocabulary Preview.
So we're going to preview the word bargain today.
Bargain.
Now this is an interesting word because it's a verb and a noun.
So a bargain is a good price, right?
So a bargain is a good price.
This t-shirt was a bargain.
I only paid a dollar for it.
So that is a bargain.
But to bargain as a verb?
To try and get a good price.
So it's very similar to negotiate.
So I would say, it costs a hundred dollars.
And then I would say maybe, no, I'll give you 50.
75.
And then I'll say 60.
Et cetera, et cetera.
And that's to bargain, right?
So we're going to be bargaining.
Let's listen to the dialogue for the first time as we have a woman bargaining in a store,
Hello, may I help you?
Yeah, this dress is really nice.
How much is it?
That one is $150.
$150?
What about this other one over here?
That's 140.
That's a bit out of my price range.
Can you give me a better deal?
This is an exclusive design by Da Marco.
What's a bargain at that price?
I think I'll shop around.
How about $100?
That's still more than I wanted to spend.
What if I take both dresses?
Okay, I can give you a special discount just because you seem like a nice person.
190 for both.
It's still a bit pricey.
Thanks anyway.
Okay, my final price, $100 for both.
There's two for the price of one and that's my last offer.
You caused a deal.
That was some good bargaining skills right there.
Yeah, and you know what?
She used a lot of good language to get a cheaper price, didn't she?
That was good.
So, let's take a look at this language in Language Takeaway.
Okay, the first word we have in Language Takeaway today, price range.
Price range.
So, price range is the minimum and the maximum that you're willing to spend for a thing that
you want to buy.
So, in the dialogue we heard, it's out of my price range.
It's more than I can spend.
More than I could spend.
Okay, let's look at her next word, shop around.
Shop around.
So, she said, I think I'll shop around.
So, she wants to check in a few other stores to see if there's a better price.
If I shop around, I'm going and trying to compare prices maybe.
This is a really good shopping technique.
Yeah, it is.
Okay, and let's look at her last word, pricey.
Pricey.
So, something that's pricey is...
Expensive.
This is a more sort of informal way of saying expensive.
So, instead of saying, wow, that car is really expensive.
It's really pricey.
Okay, let's listen to our dialogue for the second time and it's going to be slowed down
a bit.
So, you'll understand some of these great words a little bit better.
That's $140.
Hmm, that's a bit out of my price range.
It's a bargain at that price.
I can give you a special discount just because you seem like a nice person.
$190 for both.
Okay, my final price.
$100 for both.
That's two for the price of one.
That's my last offer.
You've got a deal.
So we've covered the language in this dialogue.
Now let's take a look at some of the phrases in Putting It Together.
So Marco, in this dialogue, there's a lot of really useful phrases to help you get a
better price when you shop, right?
So the first one we have is, can you give me a better deal?
So if I'm shopping and something is too expensive, I would use this sentence with the shopkeeper.
So you might say, hey, this is out of my price range.
Could you give me a better deal?
We have some examples of can you give me a better deal?
I really like this shirt, but it's too expensive.
Can you give me a better price on this car?
I really don't have that much money.
So you can see here that you can say, can you give me a better deal?
Or can you give me a better price?
Let's take a look at the next phrase.
So if the seller suggests a really high price, you can say.
So basically, you're telling the shopkeeper.
Still too expensive.
You still don't want to spend that much.
Let's take a look at our last phrase.
Now, this could work both ways.
It could be the shopkeeper that's telling you that.
That's my lowest price.
Or you could say, that's my last offer.
That's my highest price if you are buying it.
Because sometimes when you're bargaining, the shopkeeper will say, all right, what's
your best offer?
How much will you pay?
A hundred dollars.
That's my final offer.
So we've looked at a lot of great phrases and words and now you're ready to bargain
and also listen to this dialogue for the third time.
And then we'll come back and talk some more.
May I help you?
This is really nice.
My final price.
That's two for the price of one and that's my last offer.
In Canada, it's not really common to bargain, right?
It really isn't.
Even when you go to the market to buy fruits and vegetables, it's very, very rare to bargain
with a shopper.
How about in Ecuador?
In Ecuador, you definitely bargain.
Well, if you go to the mall, for example, or if you go to a supermarket, of course,
you wouldn't really bargain.
Unless maybe you go to a small store or you go to one of the local markets, then it's
more common to bargain.
You have to because people expect you to bargain.
In many countries in the world, bargaining is almost like an art.
Actually, Marco, you are an excellent bargainer, aren't you?
I've been known to bargain with the shopkeepers.
I've been known to bargain a little bit with the shopkeepers and helping out.
A little bit.
I mean, you've got better prices than I can even imagine getting.
Maybe we'll get JP to go to our comment section and tell you about that.
So we want to know about your countries.
Is it common to bargain?
Do you really do it?
Is it okay?
Or when is it okay?
Visit our website at EnglishPod.com.
Tell us about your country's bargaining customs and also leave your questions there for us.
We'll be there to answer them.
But until then, we've got to go.
So, bye.
And don't forget to like and subscribe.
Hello, English Litters.
We're bringing you a great elementary podcast today.
And we're going to be teaching you how to order pizza.
Yeah, you know, pizza is one of my favorite foods and the favorite food of many people.
It's one of those common foods that you're at home and you want to order something to
eat and the typical thing is pizza.
And you know, there's some very special language that you've got to use.
You got to know this language when you want to order a pizza.
So let's listen to this dialogue for the first time as a man is ordering pizza.
Pizza house.
This is Marty speaking.
I'd like a medium pizza with pepperoni, olives and extra cheese.
We have a two for one special on large pizzas.
Would you like a large pizza instead?
That sounds good.
Would you like your second pizza to be the same size as the first?
Make the second one with ham, pineapple and green peppers.
Oh, and make it thin crust.
Thin crust.
Your total is 2150 and your order will arrive in 30 minutes or it's free.
I need your address.
So I guess he's not getting his pizza.
He forgot to give his address.
Let's take a look at some of the vocabulary in Language Takeaway.
We've got some great pizza words for you today.
And the first one we have is a medium pizza.
Medium pizza.
So that's the size, right?
Medium.
You can say medium or?
12 inch.
Usually a medium pizza is 12 inches.
So you could say, I'd like a 12 inch pizza.
For those of us who use centimeters, this would be more or less 30 centimeters.
Let's take a look at the next size, a large pizza.
Large pizza.
A large pizza.
So it might also be called an 18 inch.
An 18 inch pizza.
Or isn't it sometimes called a family size?
Family size.
I guess it depends where you're ordering.
So large and medium pizzas.
Now let's take a look at some of the ingredients.
We have pepperoni.
Pepperoni.
This is the common ingredient in all pizza.
It's my favorite.
A pizza is not a pizza unless it has pepperoni.
So pepperoni is a sausage, right?
It's a little bit spicy.
And they look like a- Like circles.
Red circles.
Olives.
Olives are little black or green balls.
Little green or black balls.
You can also find them in a martini.
It's very common for them to have...
It's very common to have an...
It's very common to have an olive in a martini.
And he also ordered extra cheese.
Extra cheese.
That means more cheese.
Extra.
Another ingredient.
Ham.
The meat of a pig.
And he also ordered another strange ingredient for a pizza.
Pineapple.
Now, this is a fruit.
So weird to put pineapple on a pizza.
Many people like pineapple on their pizza.
It's a tropical fruit.
Comes from Hawaii.
Usually.
And it kind of looks like a little palm tree at the top.
Like, yeah, the top of a pineapple looks like a tree.
So pineapple.
Now, the last description of a pizza.
He ordered it with thin crust.
Now, we know thin is some...
Skinny.
But crust.
What is crust?
It's the bread part of the pizza.
The outside part.
So that's the crust.
That's my favorite part of the pizza.
Thin crust or thick crust?
And I just, I really love that bread part.
It's so important to a good pizza.
Well, you know, they also have the crust filled with cheese.
It's so wrong.
That's good, too.
Let's listen to our dialogue again and then we'll come back and talk a little bit more.
Um, yes.
I'd like a medium pizza with pepperoni, olives, and extra cheese.
Would you like your second pizza to be the same as the first?
I'd like the second one with ham, pineapple, and green peppers.
Your total is $21.50 and your order will arrive in 30 minutes or it's free.
Sir, wait.
Now we have some really polite language that you could use possibly with customers or with
clients.
Let's go to Fluency Builder.
My, all right.
The first phrase we have, um, I think is my favorite.
This is the way that Marty answered the phone, right?
He said, this is Marty speaking.
Now why is this so important?
Because a lot of people, when they answer the phone say, I'm Erica.
Like hello, I'm Erica, which is not what English people say.
We always say Erica speaking.
This is Erica speaking.
So guys, remember this.
You'll sound really, really great when you use this on the phone.
This is Marty.
Well, don't use Marty.
Use your name.
Then you also mentioned a two for one special.
Two for one special.
A two for one special.
So that means you're getting two pizzas, right?
For the price of one.
And a special is just a special promotion.
A special price.
Special price.
Now a very easy phrase.
Would you like?
Now this is a great way to offer something.
It's a more polite way of asking, do you want?
Do you want?
Do you want is okay.
Yeah, it's fine.
But it's less polite than would you like?
Whenever you offer something, would you like a cup of coffee?
Would you like to sit down?
So would you like?
Let's listen to our dialogue for the last time and then we'll come back and talk about
pizza from a pizza expert.
I'd like a medium pizza.
Would you like a medium pizza with pepperoni, olives and extra cheese?
Thank you for addressing.
All right, we're back and we are here with our pizza expert, who else but Marco from
ItalianPod.
Hi, everyone.
Marco Two, right?
Marco One.
I am Marco Zero.
He is Marco One.
We've come to an agreement.
So zero.
What's the deal about this?
Well, we're talking about pizza today and we wanted to know what's your opinion since
pizza comes from Italy, right?
Well, thanks for the question.
First, the Marco Zero.
Is my mic working?
It should be.
So, the problem with pizza is that, yes, it comes from Italy.
Originated, the story goes, you know, the princess, the queen Margarita.
But the problem is that now this confusion worldwide, pizza and pizza hat, American pizza,
Italian pizza, that is not the same thing.
It's not the same.
So, pizza hat is an Italian pizza.
So, okay, here it goes.
Italians, a little bit of, Italians make food, but they're not good at branding it.
Americans, they're very good at branding the food.
So they have Starbucks and pizza hat and blah, blah, blah.
The problem is that since they have to brand it, they don't change the name.
So they do this pizza hat that is totally different from Italian pizza.
How is it different?
Have you ever seen the two of them?
Have you ever compared them?
Yeah, yeah, they are very different.
So, okay, can you put pineapple and ham on a pizza?
Technically you could.
Like it's possible.
As long as you call it Hawaiian, you can put pineapple in everything, I guess.
But the problem, what I'm trying to say is that, okay, Italian pizza is, you know, you
have the flour, the pasta, the crust, the tomato sauce, and then the mozzarella cheese,
and that's the basic, and then you can build on top of it with some variations.
American pizza is basically take everything that you have on the table and put it on it.
That's the main difference.
But I'm not saying I'm against American pizza.
I'm saying that you just should change the name to another thing.
What do you suggest we should call it?
Zipa.
It's close enough.
Close enough, yeah.
But maybe you need like an A, like a Zipa.
A Zipa.
To indicate that it's American.
A for America.
A dot Zipa.
A dot Zipa dot com.
Can I have A Zipa?
So Margo, I know that you are very much against
having Pizza Hut pizza.
I like it as an exotic experience because I like the fact that it's so much stuff in
it that you cannot even tell the difference between the ingredients.
You know, they have the super mega supreme.
Super supreme.
With cheese in the crust.
I don't even know what's inside.
It's great.
It's like there's a part in my mouth and everybody's invited.
That's for me the feeling of American pizza.
Another interesting thing when we were eating pizza with Marco is that he noticed the way
that people from different countries eat pizza.
Italian people fold their pizza.
We do fold.
And another thing is that we have a whole pizza.
Like if I order one pizza, it's not like I share, everybody has one slice of it.
We order one pizza, you order your pizza, she order her pizza and so on.
Pizza is personal.
Pizza is a person.
Don't mess with my pizza, Marco Zero.
All right, well, this whole pizza discussion, let's see what our listeners have to say about
I know that we have listeners from all over the world and what do they do with their pizzas?
Or their zippas.
What do you like on your pizza?
For example, how high do you want the crust to be?
Thin.
How high?
How thin you want your crust to be?
I know that, for example, in some countries they put ketchup on their pizza.
I know once I was eating, I had a Japanese friend who ordered a pizza from Pizza Hut
and the pizza had the pineapple and other stuff on it and then she took out like ketchup
and mayonnaise and she got like wild.
Although I must tell you, I like Tabasco on my pizza and I know that's wrong.
But I like it.
You do what you have to do, Erika.
And history will judge you for that.
Alright we better go.
We're out of time and before Marco has a heart attack or an aneurysm or something, we're
making him angry here.
And if you have any questions for us and also for Marco because I'm sure he's going to be
commenting on this aspect.
So go to our comment section at EnglishPod.com.
And Marco and I, Marco Zero and I are always there to answer your questions.
Alright everyone.
Ciao.
And today, we're back bringing you another great lesson, an intermediate lesson.
That's right, about one of my favorite subjects.
We're talking about food.
So, on this occasion, we're going to be talking about food.
So let's preview some words on Vocabulary Preview.
We have three words for you today.
And the first word is head chef.
Head chef.
So, what is a head chef?
Well, in a professional kitchen, this is the boss of the kitchen or the leader of the kitchen.
So the head chef is the main cook.
Yes, but he doesn't cook.
But he doesn't cook.
So if he doesn't cook, who's the one that does the cooking?
That brings us to our second word, sous chef.
Sous chef.
S-O-U-S.
So the S is silent because it's like a French word.
Yeah, something like that.
So the sous chef is the second in line to the head chef.
Yeah, he's the number two.
Number two.
So he's basically the one that's doing some of the work in the kitchen.
Now let's take a look at our last word, cuisine.
Cuisine.
So this is an interesting word.
What exactly does it mean?
Well, it basically means cooking, right?
It's the art of cooking.
So for example, I can say French food.
Or French cuisine.
French cuisine, which includes all the food.
And this is also the major that people study in college to become a chef.
You study cuisine.
And cuisine is a noun, right?
It's a noun.
So I think we're ready to dive into our dialogue.
What exactly is going on?
Well, we're in a restaurant and it's a really busy night.
And so we're going to listen to what is happening in the kitchen.
Right away, sir.
Your order will be ready shortly.
Jean-Pierre, we have another special for table seven.
I'm working as fast as I can.
We are really in the weeds.
Where is my sous chef?
Luc, I need you to peel more potatoes.
Marie, chop some onions and carrots for the stew.
Jean-Pierre, another special.
We're really packed tonight.
We're running low on wine.
Is there any left in the cellar?
Sorry I'm late, everyone.
Wow, we're really doing well tonight.
Harry, stop talking and get over here.
I need some sautéed and the fish needs to be butchered and buttered.
Okay, I'm on it.
Jean-Pierre, table seven has requested to see the chef.
I think there are food critics from Cuisine Magazine.
Okay, so a busy night here at this restaurant.
It sounds like there's a lot of pressure on this chef, Jean-Pierre.
Yeah, you can tell in his voice that he's really stressed out.
Okay, let's take a look at some of this kitchen vocabulary that we found in Language Takeaway.
All right, well, we've got five words for you today.
And the first one is peel.
Peel.
P-E-E-L.
So, this is a verb and it means to...
Remove the outside skin.
Okay, so for example, when you're going to eat a banana...
You must peel it first.
You must peel it.
You got to take away the yellow skin.
What else do you peel?
Oranges, potatoes...
Potatoes, like in the dialogue.
What else can you peel?
Carrots.
Some people peel their tomatoes.
I don't know why.
Yeah, it is kind of weird.
All right, now let's take a look at our next word.
Chop.
So, again, another verb and it means to...
It means to cut food into pieces.
So, if you're going to eat carrots, first you got to chop them.
Right, you can't put a whole carrot in...
In your soup.
In your soup or in your rice.
Okay, chop.
Okay, our next word, stirred.
Yeah, this is the past participle of the word stir.
Okay, so the verb stir.
Stir.
So, when you stir something...
Imagine you have a big pot and you've got a long spoon.
You move the spoon around in circles.
So, you're stirring the pot.
You're mixing.
To stir is very similar to mix.
So, you just move the food around.
Move the food around.
Okay, our next word, butchered.
Again, the past participle of the verb butcher.
Okay, butcher.
Butcher.
Now, this verb to butcher something, it's when you remove all the bones and all the
organs from the meat.
So, you cut up the meat.
And this is interesting because it's also a noun.
A butcher is a person who cuts up meat.
Okay, so it's really easy.
A butcher butchers meat.
All right, our last word, buttered.
Buttered.
Okay, so buttered, this is weird.
Normally, we all know the noun butter, but here it's acting as a verb.
So, when you butter something, you spread or put butter on it.
So, to put butter on something.
So, you can butter a piece of bread.
Or in this case, the fish is being buttered.
Sounds delicious.
Okay, now we're ready to listen to our dialogue for the second time.
We're going to slow it down a little bit so it's easier to understand.
Where is my sous-chef?
Luc?
I need you to peel more potatoes.
It's not possible.
I'm fed up.
Whoa, sorry I'm late, everyone.
Wow, we are really doing well tonight.
Harry, stop talking and come over here.
I need this sauce stirred and the fish needs to be butchered and buttered.
I think they are food critics from Cuisine Magazine.
Okay, so that seems to be a little bit better.
And hey, I noticed that there's a lot of really great kitchen words in here, like words that
you commonly hear in a professional kitchen.
Okay, so let's take a look at these kitchen words in Fluency Builder.
All right, we've got three phrases.
And the first one is in the weeds.
In the weeds.
So when you're in the weeds, you're so, so busy and you can't do all the work you need
to do on time.
Okay, so in the weeds, it means that you're really busy.
And you can't finish everything.
And you have too much to do.
Okay, our next word, running low on.
Running low on.
Okay, so before we get into explaining what running low on means, let's listen to some
examples.
You better look for a gas station.
We're running low on fuel.
We're running low on beers.
Can you go out and get some?
My flashlight is running low on battery.
Hurry up before it gets dark.
So basically, running low means...
You don't have much of this left.
You don't have much of something left.
So here, they're running low on wine.
So basically...
There's not much wine left.
So if you listen to the examples, you could also be running low on fuel, for example,
on your car, etc.
All right, and now let's take a look at our last word.
Doing really well.
We are doing really well.
So this seems to be like a pretty simple structure.
I mean, we know all these words, right?
So why is it special?
Well basically, if you say, I am doing really well, maybe it sounds a little bit difficult
But what are you doing really well?
So this is a great way of answering a question.
When somebody says, how are you?
Or how are you doing?
You can say, I'm doing really well.
Or I'm doing well.
In your life, everything is good.
In your life, things are good and you're happy, basically.
But in this situation, in the dialogue, what's doing really well?
Well, the restaurant is doing really well.
The business is doing really well.
So when he says, we're doing really well, business is good.
They're making lots of money.
So you can use it with people.
You can use it with businesses.
You can say, I'm doing really well in my new job.
Or my son is doing really well in school.
Okay, so you can use it in those different ways.
Alright, well, let's listen to the dialogue one last time and we'll be able to hear all
of these great words and phrases we just talked about.
So let's listen to the dialogue one last time.
So Marco, do you think this chef had a rat under his hat?
That was a really good movie, Ratatouille, Disney, Pixar, where a rat is a cook.
It's interesting, I love to cook, but I'm not very good at cooking.
But it's good because for me, it helps me relieve stress.
Me too, actually.
You know, if I'm in a bad mood, I go home and cook something to eat and the world seems
a happier place.
And people don't understand it because they think cooking is work.
But for some people, it's fun.
So what about you guys?
What do you like to cook?
Do you have any particular dish that you prepare very well?
And if you do, please send us the recipes.
Exactly, because we know that we have listeners from all over the world and of course, we
want to know what type of food you prefer.
So come to EnglishPod.com and post your questions, your comments and your recipes in our community
section and Erica and I will always be there.
Yes, to test out your recipes as well as answer questions.
For sure, if a good recipe comes along, we'll prepare it and we'll let you know how it turned
out.
All right guys, we're out of time, but we'll see you next time.
Until then, goodbye.
And we're going to be looking at our fifth episode of our famous love story.
Yes, I'm sorry I love you.
Part five.
So if you haven't listened to the first four, I suggest you go do that first because...
You're going to be a little bit lost.
But it's getting really good.
Yeah, and so, so good that I don't think we can even say...
What's going to happen next.
We can't say what the key language is.
Yeah, we can't preview anything because we want to surprise you.
But we can tell you this.
The last time we saw Veronica and Steven, they broke up, right?
And Veronica was with her friend and feeling really terrible.
And then Steven suddenly came to sing a beautiful song.
So this is continuing on that.
So let's listen to the dialogue and then we'll come back and talk about some of the difficult
vocabulary we might find.
Honey, of course I forgive you.
I love you so much.
I've really missed you.
I was wrong to get upset over nothing.
I'm sorry I haven't called or anything.
But right after you decided you wanted a break, I was up north to put out some major forest
fires.
I was in the middle of nowhere working day and night trying to prevent the blaze from
spreading.
It was pretty intense.
Oh, honey, I'm glad you're okay.
But I have some exciting news.
I think I'm pregnant.
Wow, that's amazing.
This is great news.
I've always wanted to be a father.
We'll go to the doctor first thing in the morning.
We have your test results back and indeed you are pregnant.
Let's see here.
Everything seems to be in order.
Your approximate due date is October 27, 2009, so that means the baby was conceived on February
3, 2009.
Are these things accurate?
Well, yes, sir, they are.
What's wrong?
Why are you asking me these questions?
This baby isn't mine.
I was away the first week of February at a training seminar.
I...
It can't be.
All right, so more drama in our love story.
Oh, my God.
Things were going well and now more bad news.
Yeah, or good news.
Or good news.
We're not sure yet.
Okay, let's take a look at the vocabulary first in Language Takeaway.
Well, we're going to look at four words now.
The first one, blaze.
Blaze.
So, this noun is another word for a fire, right?
Or a big fire.
Yeah, a really big fire.
The blaze.
So, basically, it's like the flame of the fire.
This one is a little bit difficult, so I think we can use some examples to show us how to
use this word.
The blaze is spreading quickly.
We need to evacuate these people.
We have to go in there and save those people from the blaze.
Okay, so it's clear now, blaze.
Let's look at our next word, conceived.
Conceived.
The past of conceive.
Right, conceive.
Conceive is a nice fancy word.
Yes, and what does it mean, Marco?
To create.
Oh, like how you sidestepped around that one.
So, it means to create.
You can conceive a baby.
You can conceive an idea.
So, it basically means to create.
Yes, most commonly with the baby, though.
Yeah, yeah, conceive.
So, after the baby was conceived, we have a due date.
We all know that it's nine months later, approximately.
Yes, due dates.
So, the due date is the date of birth, basically.
It's the doctor's guess when the birth would be.
Would be, okay.
When you go to the doctor and say, when will my baby be born?
He'll say, well, your due date is blah, blah, blah.
Nine months later.
Okay, and our last word in language takeaway, accurate.
Accurate.
So, the due dates aren't accurate.
That means they're not 100% sure or precise.
So, when something is accurate, it's absolutely certain.
Absolutely precise.
100%.
Okay, so accurate.
Let's listen to some more examples of how we can use accurate.
A blood test is the most accurate way of finding out if you're pregnant.
These reports are not accurate, John.
We checked and discovered a lot of mistakes.
This new software helps us calculate costs in a very accurate way.
With those examples, I think we're ready to listen to this dialogue again.
This time we're going to slow it down, right?
Yeah, in case you were so shocked by what happened that you couldn't follow.
Please forgive me.
I'm sorry I haven't called or anything, but right after you decided you wanted a break,
I was called up north to put out some major forest fires.
I was in the middle of nowhere, working day and night, trying to prevent the blaze from
Oh, honey.
I'm glad you're okay, but I have some exciting news.
Wow, that's amazing!
This is great news!
We have your test results back, and indeed, you are pregnant.
Your approximate due date is October 27th, 2009, so that means the baby was conceived
on February 3rd, 2009.
Well, yes sir, they are.
Why are you asking these questions?
No, it can't be.
Alright, so continuing on with our drama, let's take a look at some interesting phrases
Well, we've got three phrases for you.
The first one is the middle of nowhere.
Middle of nowhere.
This is a kind of a funny one, but I think if we listen to some examples, it will help
us to understand the meaning of this phrase.
We are in the middle of nowhere.
How can we find our way back home?
I was in the middle of nowhere, so I couldn't even use my mobile phone.
It takes me two hours to drive to your house.
It's in the middle of nowhere.
Alright, so middle of nowhere, it means that you are lost.
Yeah, you're in a place with no cities or people or anything nearby.
Okay, so just imagine yourself in a desert, that would be the middle of nowhere.
Yes, or in Canada.
Canada.
That would be the middle of nowhere.
Alright, let's take a look at our next phrase.
First thing in the morning.
So when we talk about the first thing, it means...
Really really early in the morning.
Really early.
So I can change it a little bit and say, first thing in the afternoon.
Early in the afternoon.
Or first thing tomorrow morning.
So really early tomorrow.
So it's a very common way of referring to very early.
Yeah, it's not like first thing in the morning is like six o'clock in the morning, right?
But if you say, okay, I'll take care of that first thing in the morning, you'll do it right
away in the morning.
Right away.
Right when you get to the office, for example.
Let's look at our last phrase.
Seems to be in order.
So everything is okay.
Everything's normal.
Everything seems to be normal.
Everything looks okay.
So this is a very common phrase when people check your documents or report.
They'll say, okay, all the papers seem to be in order.
Very common.
Good news when you're pregnant that everything seems to be in order.
Everything is normal.
All right, so let's listen to this dramatic dialogue one more time and we'll come back
and talk some more.
Oh, honey, I'm glad you're okay, but I have some exciting news.
You'll go to the doctor first thing in the morning.
We have your test results back and indeed, you are pregnant.
Our approximate due date is October 27, 2009, so that means the baby was conceived on February
Well, Marco, what do you think about this situation?
What would you do if you were this guy?
It's complicated.
Uh, I don't know what I would do.
It seems like something very typical of soap operas.
Well, I don't know because she didn't really deny it in the end.
She didn't say no right away.
Yeah, but she didn't say like, oh.
Yeah, she didn't really accept it, so it's still a little bit difficult to see if maybe
she cheated on him or something.
Hey, guys, what do you think?
Do you think Veronica cheated on Stephen?
Do you think it's his baby?
Maybe it's not.
Maybe the doctor is wrong.
Maybe it's the doctor's baby.
Maybe it's...
Anything could happen here at EnglishPod, so send us your ideas and tell us what do
you think happens next.
Come to EnglishPod.com where you can leave your questions, your comments.
Yeah, and Marco and I are always around to answer your questions, respond to your comments.
Exactly, and we want to know what you think will happen next.
All right, guys, so until next time.
Independence.
And today we're going to be bringing you another great sports lesson.
Yes, this one is for all our hockey fans.
I know we have a lot of listeners from Russia, so this is a very popular sport in Russia,
Czech Republic.
Yes, and Canada.
And Canada, right?
Very, very popular in Canada.
It's our national game.
Well, I guess because you guys have so much ice.
I know, there's nothing else to do.
Because skiing and hockey.
All right, so it's going to be a really fun lesson.
We're going to have a lot of great vocabularies.
So before we start in the dialogue, let's take a look at vocabulary preview.
Well, we have three words for you now.
The first one, really simple, puck.
Puck.
P-U-C-K.
So it's almost like duck, but with a P. And this is actually kind of like the ball that
you use in hockey.
But it's not a ball.
It's flat.
And round.
So it looks like a disc, kind of like a mini frisbee.
And this is what the players do.
This is what they...
They chase this around.
They chase it, right.
So in basketball, you have a ball.
In soccer, you have a ball.
In hockey, you have a puck.
Okay, our next word.
Key game.
A key game.
So this word, key.
Important.
It means important, right?
Really important.
So I can say a key game is a really important game.
You could also maybe say a key player.
Key player is a really important player.
Or even a key goal.
A key goal.
So let's take a look at our last word now.
Finals.
The finals.
So the finals are the last games.
And the winner of the finals wins the championship.
For example, in the World Cup in soccer, there's only one game played in the finals.
So after everyone gets eliminated, there's one game where the winner is the champion.
So now we're ready to listen to our dialogue.
And it's going to be a little bit faster than usual.
Because it's a sports commentator, right?
And it's exciting.
And there's a lot of action.
So don't worry about it.
Listen to it.
And then we'll come back and talk about some of the vocabulary.
I'm Rick Fields.
And here with me is Bob Copeland.
Howdy folks.
And welcome to today's game.
You know, Rick, today's a key game between Russia and Canada.
As you know, the winner will move on to the finals.
And it looks like we're just about ready to start the match.
The ref is calling the players for the faceoff.
And here we go.
The Russians win possession and immediately start up their attack.
Fedorov gets checked hard into the boards.
Boris Richal has the puck now.
And he passes it to center.
He shoots.
And it's going to be a goalie.
The puck is back in play now.
Pavel Bory is on a breakaway.
He is flying down the ice.
The defenders can't keep up.
Slapshot.
He scores.
What an amazing goal.
So the Canadians versus the Russians, huh?
It reminds me of a classic, classic game.
The classic match.
So, let's take a look at some of the vocabulary that we heard in the dialogue in Language
Takeaway.
We have five phrases in Language Takeaway today.
And the first one is face-off.
Face-off.
So, Marco, a face-off here is a noun, right?
It's a noun, exactly.
And it's...
So, in the beginning of a match, the two players will stand face-to-face, right?
That's why it's called kind of a face-off.
And the referee will drop the puck and they'll try to get it.
So, that's the face-off.
That's the face-off.
Check.
To check.
So, an interesting verb here, hey?
Yeah, it's really interesting because it's different from the way that you would say
check or revise, right?
This is actually kind of a violent move.
So, what do you do?
So, basically, in hockey, you take your body and you hit another person with it.
So, to check someone is to hit them with your body.
With your body, right.
You can't use your arms or your legs or your hands.
You can only hit them like with your shoulder or your hip.
It's called a hip check.
So, yeah.
It's very cool.
Our next word, goalie.
Goalie.
A goalie is a person.
Who is probably the bravest of the hockey match.
So, why don't you tell us what the goalie does?
The goalie prevents the puck from coming in the net.
From going into the goal, right?
So, the goalie stops the other team from getting a goal.
A goal.
So, the goalie prevents the goals.
Very interesting.
Now, our fourth word is related to goalie.
Save.
That's a noun, right?
It's a noun here.
So, the goalie makes saves.
When he stops a goal, he makes a save.
Makes a save, right?
We have some examples so we can understand this form of using save.
That was an unbelievable save.
The goalie didn't make the save.
What a save!
The Russians win!
Yeah, a little bit unusual here that save is a noun instead of a verb, but I think those
examples were helpful.
Now, let's take a look at our last word, breakaway.
Breakaway.
Okay, so you have two words there that we know already.
Break.
And away.
So what do these two words together actually mean?
Well, imagine a group of hockey players all fighting to get the puck, right?
And then one player breaks off, breaks out of the group.
Escapes.
And he skates down the ice and he has the puck.
And he's far away from the other players.
So he's going away from the other players by himself.
Okay, so breakaway.
So we've looked at a lot of hockey language here.
And I think it's time now to listen to our dialogue again.
This time we're going to slow it down a little bit.
Yeah, I think this will help you to understand these words a little bit better.
Hello everyone.
I'm Rick Fields and here with me is Bob Copeland.
Howdy folks and welcome to today's game.
You know, Rick, today is a key game between Russia and Canada.
The Russians win possession and immediately set up their attack.
Moisei Shad has the puck now and passes it to the center.
Wow, what a save by the goalie.
Pavel Burei is on a breakaway.
OK, this dialogue is interesting because we have commentators narrating or describing
what's happening.
In that moment, right?
And they're using some interesting grammar, aren't they?
They are because some actions are happening in that moment.
But we noticed something a little bit strange.
Let's look at it in Grammar Breakdown.
Grammar Breakdown.
OK, let's listen to this sentence that we previously heard in the dialogue.
I noticed that he's using the present simple, right?
So even though the action is now, it's in present simple.
Even though the action is happening in that moment, he's not using the present progressive
or the present continuous.
This is because if you notice, the actions are very, very brief.
And fast.
And exciting.
So you don't really have enough time to say, for example, he is shooting.
Because it's only one quick action.
He shoots the puck very fast.
Or for example, you wouldn't really say, he is passing.
Yeah, he is passing the puck.
It's just one quick action.
He takes it and passes it.
And the action is finished.
I think we can see a few more examples of this.
Let's listen again.
Here, we can hear that he is using the present simple again.
Because these are very short actions that finish quickly.
And it's actually very, very common when you're describing something you see that's happening
now, that's really exciting.
It's common to use present simple.
If you pay attention, most sporting events are in the same way.
They would describe the actions that are happening in the present simple.
Not present progressive.
But Marco, you have an example of some present progressive here, right?
Let's listen to this sentence.
Now we heard the sentence, he is flying down the ice.
Now this one is in progressive.
Why is that?
Well, first of all, when we say he's flying down the ice, it's not that he's literally
flying.
No, he's not an airplane.
He's just skating really fast.
So we kind of exaggerate and we say, oh, he's flying down the ice.
But he's actually skating.
So this is a progressive action.
He is doing it.
It's happening for more than one second.
So that's why we would say, he is flying down the ice instead of he flies down the ice.
He's skating really, really, really fast.
So here we see that sometimes in English, we do use present simple to talk about what's
happening now.
When it happens really, really quickly or when we want to show that it's really exciting.
Makes it much more exciting if we just use the present simple.
Let's listen to this exciting dialogue one more time and we'll come back and talk a little
bit more.
Looks like we're just about ready to start the match.
The ref is calling the players for the face off and here we go.
Maurice Richart has the puck now and he passes it to Sender.
What a save by the goalie.
Pavel Bure is on a breakaway.
Slap shot.
So hockey is the Canadian national sport.
Well, actually it isn't the national sport.
Lacrosse.
But anyway, we're not, we don't have a lesson about lacrosse today.
Not yet.
But actually all Canadians love hockey.
Like we start playing hockey when we're about two years old.
I've heard that some Canadian children learn how to skate before they learn how to walk.
It's totally common.
Well, it is a great sport.
Very, very exciting.
It's very fast paced and it's very aggressive.
That's what I like about it.
Not violent, but very aggressive.
I must tell you that I am not a good Canadian.
You're not a hockey fan?
I really, I really hate hockey.
It's so small.
It's hard to see where it is on the ice and it's cold and these guys are fighting and
anyway.
Have you ever been to a hockey game?
Many times.
And I just find that the puck is really small.
Maybe you just need better seats.
Well, what do you guys think about hockey?
We'll post some videos and some pictures of hockey on the comment section so you can more
or less see a little bit more about this really interesting sport and tell us what you think
about it.
And you can also check out our website, EnglishPod.com and you'll find some interesting stuff about
hockey, right?
And also lots of other great lessons.
And also if you have any questions or doubts about the lesson, you can leave your questions
on the site.
We're out of time.
Thanks for listening and goodbye.
Bye bye
And today we're going to be bringing you a great lesson that's talking about a bank
robbery.
Yes, and this is an important lesson for all of our future bank robbers out there.
Yeah, we are going to teach you some words that you would use for planning a bank robbery,
but you can apply them to other situations, hopefully not.
Yeah, I hope you apply them to other situations.
Hopefully you won't rob a bank.
We don't want to be responsible for any crimes you can commit.
Alright, so why don't we start by looking at some of the vocabulary in Vocabulary Preview.
We have one word for you today that you'll hear in the dialogue and it is filling in.
Filling in.
So to fill in for somebody, right?
That means that you are replacing them.
So if Marco can't host the show today, maybe Dany will fill in.
Okay, so to take the place of someone.
Okay, so now let's listen to our dialogue.
Let's listen to this bank robbery and let's see what happens.
Alright, so this is what we're going to do.
I've carefully mapped this out, so don't screw it up.
Mr. Rabbit, you and Mr. Fox will go to the bank wearing these uniforms.
We've managed to get replicas of the one the guards wear for when they pick up the money.
No problem, boss.
When you get inside, tell them that you're filling in for Carl and Tom and say that they're
on another route today.
Don't lose your cool.
Just act natural.
What if they want to call and confirm?
You let them.
We have the phones tapped, so the call will be passed through to me and I'll pretend to
be the transport company.
You're so clever, boss.
Okay, shut up.
Only take as much money as you can fit in these bags.
Don't get greedy.
Are you ready?
Well, it sounds like a pretty interesting plan.
It does sound like a plan.
Do you think it'll work?
I guess we'll have to maybe talk a little bit about that later.
Let's take a look at the language that we saw in Language Takeaway.
Okay, we heard five really great words in this dialogue that I'd like to look at now
in Language Takeaway.
So let's go to the first one.
Now we heard the boss say that they got replicas of the uniforms.
Right, replicas.
Replicas.
So this is really easy.
Something that's a replica is a copy.
So for example, in Las Vegas, there's a replica of the Eiffel Tower of Paris.
Actually, I lived in a small city where there was also a replica of the Eiffel Tower.
Yeah, in France.
That is kind of weird.
Well, there are a lot of replicas.
Even now on the street, maybe you can see replica watches, right?
That supposedly are Rolex, but they're not.
And many, many other things.
So, copies.
Not the real thing.
All right, so let's take a look at the next word.
Tapped.
We have the phones tapped.
So if you tap someone's phone, you do something to the telephone line so that you can hear
their conversations, right?
And actually, the police do this sometimes, right?
You see it in movies all the time.
You connect a wire to the phone so you can listen to the conversation.
So, you tap the telephone line.
So in our dialogue, they tapped the bank's phone, right?
And he said if they make a call, he will patch the call through to him.
So, patch through.
Patch through.
Yeah, patch a call through.
And we use this today.
Like if you call an office, right?
And you say, oh, can you patch me through to Carol?
So, can you connect me to another phone line?
Connect me.
Now, let's take a look at our next words.
Clever.
Yes, the boss is very clever.
The boss is very clever.
So if you're clever, you're...
You're smart.
You're really smart.
So, you're clever and this is a clever plan.
Clever plan.
Now, let's take a look at our last word.
Don't be greedy.
Greedy.
To be greedy is a bad thing.
You want everything.
You want everything for you.
You don't share.
So, like at lunch today, when you had that cake.
And I didn't share?
I was very greedy?
With food, I am greedy.
So, these are some great words.
And I think, you know, if we listen to the dialogue another time, a little bit more slowly,
we'll be able to hear them a little bit better.
So this is what we're going to do.
I've carefully mapped this out.
So don't screw it up.
Mr. Rabbit, you and Mr. Fox will go into the bank wearing these uniforms.
We've managed to get replicas of the one the guards wear when they pick up the money.
What if they want to call and conform?
So the call will be patched through to me.
And I'll pretend to be the transport company.
Only take as much money as you can fit into these bags.
Okay, so now we understand these words that we talked about in Language Takeaway.
So now let's take a look at some of these great phrases in Fluency Builder.
We've got three phrases for you here.
And these are all phrases you might use when you're planning something.
So the first one, mapped out.
Mapped out.
To map out.
So when you map something out, what do you do?
Well, you literally create a plan.
You draw a map of what you're going to do.
So here, is it only for like travel or?
It's like, for example, if we're starting a new project in the company, you can map
out the project, what you're going to do this month, next month.
So it's a plan.
So you draw every step in the plan.
Every step, right.
So you said, well, I've mapped out this plan for a new project.
Okay, interesting word.
I think we should hear some examples of how it's used.
So I have the future all mapped out.
Well, you'll get a job as a waiter, then we'll get married.
And two years later, we'll start having kids.
We're mapping out the marketing plan at the meeting today.
Okay, I've mapped out our trip and it should take about 10 hours.
All right, so mapped out.
Really, really clear now.
All right, so if you've mapped out a plan, you don't want to screw it up.
Right, screw it up.
Screw it up.
Or screw up.
So to screw something up means that you made a mistake on something.
Or you did something wrong.
You did it wrong.
Okay, so for example, if I'm taking an exam and I make a mistake, I screwed up on the
exam.
Or for example, here, when we're recording, Marco and I make mistakes a lot.
Maybe more me than Marco.
We always screw up.
So to make a mistake, it's a really informal word, but very, very common.
And you know, it sounds really, really natural when people use this.
All right, so now let's take a look at our last word.
Lose your cool.
So what is this, to lose your cool?
It's a weird expression.
Why don't we just give you an example of a person that loses his or her cool.
What do you mean you're not ready to go?
It's time to go.
We have to go now.
Boninato!
We were supposed to leave!
Punietta, now we're sitting here again.
I'm going to wait for you.
Boninam!
Okay, so basically, you lose your temper.
You become irritated.
You lose control of your emotions.
So Marco, when you lose your cool, is it always that you get angry?
You don't always get angry.
Maybe you get irritated or impatient.
Or even nervous.
Nervous.
So basically, you're not in control of your emotions.
Okay, so we've looked at a lot of great phrases, a lot of great words.
So we can listen to our dialogue now for the third time, and then we'll come back and talk
about this bank robbery business.
All right, so this is what we're going to do.
When you get inside, tell them that you're filling in for Carl and Tom, and say that
they're on another route today.
We have the phones tapped, so the call will be patched through to me, and I'll pretend
to be the transport company.
So there's a lot of movies about bank robberies, but obviously they happen in real life.
So this dialogue is actually based on real events, right?
Yeah, this actually happened in real life, and so it's actually a very creative and nonviolent
way of robbing a bank.
Okay, so what happened?
Basically, this guy went to a bank dressed up as one of those security guards that transport
the money from the bank to another safe place.
He had fake credentials or replica credentials.
So fake ID.
Yeah, he had a replica of the uniform.
And he walked in, he took all these bags, him and his partner, and they took him to
the truck and drove off.
The bank didn't realize that they had been robbed.
They thought it was a routine thing.
Three or four hours later, the real security guard shows up.
They were long gone, and they still can't find them.
So a very clever plan.
Very clever and very effective.
I think they stole over half a million dollars.
Okay, well guys, don't try this at home.
Don't try this at home, but real life, real English, right?
Okay, so come to our website, leave your questions and comments.
Tell us what you think will happen with these guys.
Do you think they'll be successful?
Do you think they'll get caught?
Yeah, they might end up in jail.
Maybe somebody will lose their cool and get caught, right?
Well thanks for listening guys, and until next time, goodbye.
And today we're back in the office.
We have a lesson that's talking about something that goes wrong in the office.
Yes, something that I can really understand well, but we'll talk about that later.
So this lesson is about a photocopier.
A photocopier.
So let's take a look at this word in vocabulary preview.
All right, so a photocopier makes copies.
Yeah, it makes copies of documents.
We often call it a copier or a copy machine.
Yeah, so you can call it a photocopier, copy machine or copier.
Yes, or a Xerox machine as well.
Xerox machine.
Yeah, we can talk about that a little bit later because that's an interesting story.
Toner.
Toner is what the copy machine uses to make copies.
It's like the ink.
It's a very fine black powder.
So it's not an ink.
No, it's actually dry.
It's dry.
It's a powder, so you don't want to get that all over you.
Well, good advice, Marco.
And our last word in vocabulary preview, malfunction.
Malfunction.
Let's break down this word.
Malfunction is to work.
Mal.
I guess mal maybe comes from Latin or something because in Spanish we say mal, which is something
evil or not good.
So I think we can understand malfunction is not good working.
More or less, it's not working properly.
Not working properly.
Let's find out what isn't working properly.
Hey, Carl, can you make a copy of this contract for me, please?
And when you have it ready, send it out ASAP to our sub branch.
I think I broke this thing.
Maxine, can you help me out here?
I'm not really a tech guy.
I think it's just out of toner.
You can go use the other one upstairs.
On your way up, can you fax this while I try and fix this thing?
Damn it.
Everything in this office seems to be breaking down.
I'll send the stupid fax later.
Is someone playing a practical joke on me?
This is ridiculous.
The elevator has some sort of malfunction.
Just take the stairs, dude.
What floor are you going to?
I have to go up 15 floors.
Never mind.
Made it.
There's a copier.
No!
Okay, so this copy machine is definitely not working properly.
A serious malfunction.
I think the whole building exploded.
All right, very dramatic here at EnglishPod, but we have fun, right?
Okay, let's take a look at some of the great language that we saw in Language Takeaway.
All right, three words for you here in Language Takeaway, and we heard all of these in the
So this guy needs to get a copy ASAP.
ASAP.
Or ASAP.
As soon as possible.
So really, really fast.
This is a very, very common phrase, right?
So it's an acronym, and you can say it like ASAP or?
Yeah, usually people say it like that because it's too long, I guess, to say as soon as
possible.
So, hey, I need this document ASAP.
A practical joke.
Practical joke.
Okay, so a practical joke, I'm sure we have all played a practical joke on some of our
friends, right?
Basically, what you do is you do something funny on purpose to someone.
Yeah, but something crazy.
Crazy, right?
For example, when I was in university, there was this guy in our building, and we took
all of his bedroom furniture, so his bed, his desk, everything, and put it down on the
football field.
Yeah, that was a practical joke.
That is a very good and elaborate practical joke.
Okay, so practical joke, do something crazy or funny to your friends.
And now let's look at our last word.
Okay, so if you say never mind, it means...
Forget it.
Yeah, this is, you know, this is so common, and I think it would be helpful to understand
how it's used.
So let's hear some examples.
Someone stole my wallet.
Oh, wait.
Can you get some milk on your way home?
Oh, never mind.
We still have some.
The printer's broken?
I'll do this later.
Okay, great examples, and I think our language takeaway is clear.
So why don't we listen to our dialogue for the second time, and then we'll come back
and talk about putting it together.
And when you have it ready, send it out ASAP to our sub-branch.
Oh, great!
This is ridiculous!
I have to go up 15 floors!
There's the copier.
In this episode, we're going to learn how to use the computer to make a copy of a contract.
In this dialogue, there's some great language that can be used in many different patterns
or in many different ways.
So, in today's Putting It Together, we're going to show you how to use three of these
patterns.
Putting It Together
Okay, the first pattern that we can look at is out of toner.
Out of toner.
So, we already talked about toner.
Let's talk about out of.
Okay, so when you are out of, you have none.
So, let's change a little bit.
So, I can say, I am out of milk.
I'm out of time.
Out of time, right?
If you're driving, I'm out of gas or gasoline.
So, out of plus noun.
It means you don't have none.
EnglishPod.com.
You ain't got none.
Eubonics.com.
Out of time.
Let's take a look at our second one.
On your way up.
Yeah, on your way up.
On your way, right?
So, this is a great way when you are talking to someone and they're going somewhere.
So, on your way up.
Can you bring this to HR?
On your way to the store.
Can you mail this letter?
Or maybe on your way home.
Can you buy me some flowers?
So, on your way, it means...
It means while you are going there.
Taking advantage of the fact that you are going somewhere.
Now, let's take a look at our last one.
And this is a really great phrase.
Break down.
In our dialogue, we heard breaking down.
Everything in the office seems to be breaking down.
So, when something breaks down...
It stops working.
So, we can change it a little bit.
So, what if we say, break up?
Ooh, boyfriend and girlfriend.
They end their relationship.
So, we can maybe think about it as their relationship stops working.
Oh, nice one.
What about break in?
Enter a place using force.
You enter a house that's not yours.
So, if you break into a house, maybe you break the window and climb in.
What about break out?
The opposite.
So, break out of jail.
Break out of prison.
So, this is a great phrase.
You can change the last word from break down, break up, break in, and it means different
things.
So, use different prepositions for different meanings.
So, now let's listen to our dialogue for the last time, and then Erica and I will be back
and talk a little bit more about malfunctioning office supplies.
I think I missed it.
Damn it!
Oh great!
Just take the stairs dude.
Alright, so Erica, everything that you touch that's electronic seems to malfunction, right?
This is absolutely true.
I don't know what it is, but you know what, if I turn on a computer it will suddenly get
a virus.
And even if I'm very careful it still breaks.
Yeah, it happens sometimes.
I can relate to that.
But you are much better at computers and technology than I am.
Well, I really, really like them.
And well, I guess even I know a little bit about copy machines or copiers because my
uncles are like copy technicians.
Yeah, so they fix copiers that broke down or they replace toner and they do all that
stuff so that's why I know a little bit about it.
But actually the original term is a Xerox machine.
Yes, why is that?
From the brand, right?
Ah, right.
There's a brand called Xerox and Xerox invented and patented this technology of making copies.
Alright well the next time my photocopier explodes I'll call you.
Call my uncles, right?
Alright and well let us know how things in your office break down or if you have any
stories of like Erica that breaks everything she touches.
Alright, so come to our website, come to our comment section and leave your opinions and
we'll be there to also answer any doubts or questions you might have.
You can find us at EnglishPod.com and Marco and I are always around.
Alright so we'll see you guys there.
Yep, we will.
Okay guys, thanks for listening and until next time.
And today we have a great lesson for all our upper intermediate students.
We're talking about airplane travel today.
Airplane travel, right.
So we're going to be in an airplane.
And we're going to be listening to some of the common things you might hear on an announcement
in the airplane.
Yeah, usually the flight attendant or the captain will come on and say something and
well, usually it's in English, so we got to understand what they're saying.
And we'll also learn some great phrases that you can use when you want to describe flights
to your friends when you're talking to them.
Yeah, that always happens.
You arrive somewhere and people are like, hey, how was your flight?
Now you know how to answer it.
So why don't we take a look at our vocabulary preview?
Well, we've got three words for you here in vocabulary preview all about flying.
So what's our first one?
Turbulence.
So turbulence.
How can we describe this?
Well, turbulence when you're in an airplane basically is air that is moving in all directions
really fast.
So the airplane will start to shake.
It's the same thing if you're flying a kite and maybe some turbulence is in the air, your
kite will maybe fall to the ground.
So it's moving in all directions.
It's really turbulent.
Well, we'll hear how this word is used in the dialogue.
But another airplane word we hear a lot.
Crew.
Flight crew.
C-R-E-W.
So the flight crew is basically the team.
It's all the people that are in the airplane.
So it's basically the captain and the co-pilot.
And all the flight attendants.
So it's basically the flight crew.
And what about our last word?
Bumpy ride.
A bumpy ride.
Bumpy.
Not smooth.
So what would be an example of a bumpy ride?
Imagine if you're driving in your car and you're driving on a dirt road, like with many
holes in it and everything.
And rocks and everything.
You're driving on that road and it would be really, really bumpy.
So your car will be moving a lot.
And shaking.
So a bumpy ride is a trip where you move and shake a lot.
It's kind of uncomfortable.
So you can say, that is a bumpy road.
Or it was a bumpy ride.
So now let's listen to our dialogue.
We're going to be listening to these people on an airplane and the captain is going to
give some instructions.
And the next thing you know, we're running towards the...
Did you feel that?
We're just going through a bit of turbulence.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is your captain speaking.
It looks like we've hit a patch of rough air.
So we're going to have a bit of a bumpy ride for the next several minutes.
This is why I hate flying.
At this time, I'd like to remind all of our passengers to fasten their seatbelts and remain
seated until the fasten seatbelt sign is turned off.
Please ensure that all cabin baggage is carefully stowed under the seat in front of you.
I'll be back to update you in a minute.
Brent!
This is totally normal.
It happens all the...
Ladies and gentlemen, this is your captain again.
We've got quite a large patch of rough air ahead of us.
And so for your safety, we will be suspending in-flight service.
I would ask all the in-flight crew to return to their seats at this time.
I would also ask that all our passengers refrain from using the lavatory until the seatbelt
sign has been switched off.
We can expect...
Well, here we are with another dramatic dialogue, another explosion in English.
What's happening?
A lot of adventure is going on.
So we'll see what happens.
But I'm sure they're all right.
Don't worry, everyone.
Well, I hope so.
It's kind of making me nervous for my next flight.
So let's take a look at some of the words that the captain used in language takeaway.
All of these words you'll hear really, really often when you're flying.
And the first one we have for you is fasten.
Fasten.
Fasten your seatbelt.
Now this is a great word.
Fasten means to...
Do up.
Do up or put on or...
Connect.
Connect, right?
So usually it'll be with a seatbelt or a belt or something like that, right?
Now the pronunciation here is interesting.
It's spelt F-A-S-T-E-N.
So it would be fasten.
No, right?
The T kind of becomes silent.
So it's fasten.
Lavatory.
So what is a lavatory exactly?
Because I'm always confused.
What's the difference between bathroom, restroom, washroom, WC, lavatory?
So many words for bathroom.
A lavatory is a room with a toilet and sink only.
Only a toilet and sink.
So no bathtub.
No shower either.
No shower.
So it's very, very common to find a lavatory in boats, airplanes, or in trains.
But never in your house.
Never in your house, right?
Even if your room in your house is only a sink and a toilet, it's still not a lavatory.
It's a bathroom.
That's just the way it is in English.
And something interesting that you told me today, WC, right?
That's a common thing that you'll see on a bathroom.
What does that stand for?
Water closet.
I didn't know that.
Anyways, let's take a look at our next word.
Stow.
To stow.
Stow your luggage.
So if I stow my luggage, it means?
You put it in a place where you can get it easily, but it is very safe.
Maybe it's not even visible, right?
So you put it away in a safe spot.
So usually in airplanes, they will tell you to stow your luggage under your seat.
Or stow your luggage in the overhead bin.
Overhead bin or overhead compartment.
And our last word.
Refrain.
Refrain from doing something.
So this is a verb, meaning avoid doing.
Avoid doing.
Do not do.
Something interesting about this grammar-wise is it's usually followed by from.
Refrain from.
And the verb that follows is always gerund, right?
So refrain from ing.
Refrain from using the lavatory.
Refrain from smoking.
So refrain from.
So some really great examples in language takeaway.
And well, now let's take a look at Fluency Builder and see some of these great phrases.
Three phrases we have for you here.
The first one, remain seated.
Remain seated.
So to remain seated.
Really simple.
To stay sitting.
To stay on your seat.
Don't stand up.
This is really important in airplanes, right?
Yeah, because otherwise if there's turbulence, you could, you know, end up flying around
the airplane.
Or fall, exactly, and hurt yourself.
Now, one of the reasons they had to remain seated was because they were going to go through
a patch of rough air.
Patch of rough air.
So patch.
Now, interesting.
So patch is a small area, right?
So a small area of turbulence.
A small area of turbulence.
Now, what would be another example of patch?
Maybe a patch of strawberries.
So it's like a little strawberry garden, right?
Or a patch of grass.
Patch of grass.
Usually in front of your house, you'll have a little patch of grass.
So patch of.
And now our last phrase.
Suspend.
Suspend in flight service.
So stop for a short time.
Stop for a short time.
So you could suspend your work.
And if you're going on vacation, you could suspend your subscription to the newspaper.
So suspend to temporarily stop.
So we've covered a lot of vocabulary and some great phrases.
So why don't we listen to our dialogue one more time, and we'll come back and talk about
And the next thing you know, we're running towards the.
Oh, did you feel that?
At this time, I'd like to remind all our passengers to fasten their seat belts and remain seated
until the fasten seat belt sign is turned off.
Oh my God, Brent.
It happens all the.
We've got quite a large patch of rough air ahead of us, and so for your safety, we will
be suspending in-flight service.
I would also ask that all our passengers refrain from using the lavatory until the seat belt
We can expect.
Erica, have you ever had a turbulent flight like this?
No, no, never this bad.
A little bit of turbulence.
Actually, I kind of like turbulent flights.
It's sort of like, I don't know, it's kind of fun.
You get shaken around and your stomach moves up and down.
You don't get nervous?
No, I get a little excited.
Well, it is true that flying is actually very, very safe, right?
I know we all hear that more people are killed in car accidents than flight accidents.
So it's very, very safe.
So yeah, I don't worry about the turbulence.
Knock on wood.
But yeah, so flying is really safe and you know, as long as you remain seated, you fasten
your seat belt and you, you know, you follow the instructions, you shouldn't have any problems.
Actually, that's a really good point because actually when I was reading about flight turbulence
for this dialogue, I kept reading all these stories about these people who, you know,
when they got into some turbulent air were, you know, knocked over or they ended up like
actually literally flying through the cabin and getting really badly hurt.
So everyone, you got to fasten your seat belt.
Yes, remain seated.
Flying tips here at EnglishPod.
Flying tips at EnglishPod.
We don't want you to get hurt.
And we know that you travel a lot, so be safe, right?
And use this language to describe your flight.
So come to our website, EnglishPod.com where you can leave questions.
You can also leave your comments.
Marco and I are always there.
And actually, in fact, we have to go check the site now.
So yeah, we're out of time.
So we'll see you guys next time.
And today, we're bringing you another great advanced lesson for all those advanced users
out there.
This is a really, really useful lesson for all of our advanced users.
You asked for a lesson about job interviews and well, here we are.
We're bringing you the first of three parts of the job interview series.
So you said it is the first of three parts.
So tell me, what are these three parts?
In this lesson, we're going to be looking at preparing for a job interview.
So everything you got to do before the job interview.
Part two will be talking about your education, your background, your work experience.
And in part three, we'll take a look at some of the common questions that are asked at
a job interview.
And so we'll talk about some great ways to answer these questions.
And these three lessons will be coming out over the next month or so.
So we're going to be looking at part one today.
So let's take a look at some vocabulary preview.
Well, we have three words here in vocabulary preview that you'll hear in the dialogue in
And the first one is actually not really a word, but an acronym.
CRM.
So Marco, you are our marketing guy.
Tell us, what is a CRM?
Well, it's really common in marketing.
It stands for customer relationship management.
Or customer relation management.
But basically it's the relationship that the company has with its customers.
So CRM basically has parts like feedback or customer support, problems that they might
have, and also information about habits and likes and dislikes from their customers or
users.
But I commonly hear this word used as a noun.
So something like, can you check in the CRM?
There is some software out there that's called the CRM.
So SugarCRM or many different softwares, which basically manages your database of customers.
Basically software that englobes this whole thing.
Our next phrase in vocabulary preview.
Custom designed.
So when something is custom designed, it means it's a special design just for you.
So it's unique.
That's what the word custom means.
Unique.
Like made especially for one person.
So you have custom designed or also custom made.
You see that a lot, for example, in cars, right?
A custom made car.
Or maybe a custom built house.
A custom built house.
With your specific likes and dislikes.
Your requirements.
And our last word, core values.
Core values.
So the core values of a company.
What does the core mean, actually?
The center.
The center, right?
So in here, I think it's like the center or the most important.
The most important things the company believes in, right?
So maybe respect for the environment.
Or developing their employees.
So the core values.
The main things that the company believes in.
A great phrase for job interviews.
Very good phrase.
So why don't we listen to a dialogue.
Erica, what exactly is happening?
We're going to be listening to two friends.
And this guy is getting ready to go on a job interview.
So his friend is helping him to prepare.
So let's go over everything one more time.
I really want you to get this job.
It's an amazing growth opportunity.
They're true industry leaders.
And it would be so interesting to be part of an organization that is the undisputed
leader in business process platform development.
So let's see.
You did your research on the company, right?
Well, I visited the website and read up on what they do.
They're an IT service company that offers comprehensive business solutions for large
corporations.
They provide services such as CRM development, and they also offer custom designed applications.
So what would be your role in the company?
Well, the position is for an account manager.
That basically means that I would be the link between our clients and our development team.
Sounds good.
And so why do you want to work with them?
Well, as I said, they're the industry leaders.
They have a really great growth strategy, amazing development opportunities for employees.
And it seems like they have a strong corporate governance.
They're all about helping companies grow and unleashing potential.
I guess their core values and mission really resonated with me.
Oh, and they offer a six week vacation, stock options and bonuses.
I'm totally going to cash in on that.
You idiot.
You don't say that.
Do you want this job or not?
All right, so he was doing great, but in the end, he said something he shouldn't, right?
Yeah, I don't think talking about money as your primary motivation for coming on to a
new company is really the way to go.
Yeah, and we're going to talk about that a little bit later, but let's take a look real
quick at some language takeaway.
All right, in this lesson, we have five key words for you from the dialogue, which we
hope that you will remember.
Undisputed.
So, this is kind of a strange word.
Let's listen to some examples before we explain it.
It's undisputed that she's the best person for the job.
The undisputed truth is that unemployment is rising.
No one doubts that.
She's the undisputed champion of the world.
Well, I can understand from these examples that it means there is no doubt.
There is no doubt.
There's no question.
Okay, now let's take a look at our second word, growth opportunity.
Growth opportunity.
It's a great growth opportunity.
So it's an excellent chance to improve, right?
To improve professionally and also on a personal side, right?
So, when we talk about growth opportunities, we can also use the phrase a development opportunity.
And it's the same thing, right?
To develop, to grow.
To improve yourself.
Now, let's take a look at our third word, read up.
Read up.
So, when you read up on something.
Well, obviously, you read it, right?
But you're reading it specifically for some information so you can know more about the
subject.
So, it's kind of similar to study, right?
Kind of.
But really with the idea that you're trying to improve your knowledge about a particular
field.
Now, for our fourth word, unleash potential.
Unleash potential.
So, to unleash.
Well, I'm going to paint a picture for you.
So, imagine you have your dog, right?
And your dog is walking on a leash.
Like it has a string or a rope attached to it.
So, then when you undo the leash, you unleash the dog.
And then what happens?
It goes around and it's running.
It's going everywhere.
So, if you unleash potential, you release it and let it go and help it grow and become
bigger.
So, you give it freedom.
So, potential is the capabilities or abilities that a person has, right?
To do something great.
This, I think, is an excellent word to use in a job interview.
I think it is really descriptive and really powerful.
So, let's go to the last one now.
Resonate with.
So, he mentioned, this really resonated with me.
So, what does he mean by resonated?
I guess he means it connected to him, right?
It touched him.
So, he agrees with this idea or he feels that he can relate to it.
I think this one needs a few examples to really show its meaning.
The candidate's speech really resonated with the voters.
Their music doesn't really resonate with me.
Their commitment to fight global warming resonates with me.
So, it's clear now to resonate with, right?
So, why don't we go and listen to our dialogue for the last time and then we'll come back
and give you some great pointers about preparing for a job interview.
They're true industry leaders and it would be so interesting to be part of an organization
that is the undisputed leader in business process platform development.
They provide services such as CRM development and they also offer custom designed applications.
They have a really great growth strategy, amazing development opportunities for employees,
and it seems like they have a strong corporate governance.
Oh, and they offer six weeks vacation, stock options and bonuses.
OK, so preparing for a job interview is really important, right?
And we're going to give you some really basic tips about how you can prepare for a job interview.
I got to confess something to you, Marco.
I love job interviews.
Yeah, I know it's really weird.
Most people hate them, but I love them.
So you love being the interviewer or going to job interviews?
Both.
I like everything about them.
So I feel like I have a lot of passion to share with you about this.
So let's take a look at the first point or the first tip that you can help us out with.
So before you go to a job interview, you should do a little bit of research, right?
And that's our first point.
It's really important to know as much as you can about the company, their history, their
product, their management style, just as much information as you can find out about how
they work and what they do.
And why do you think this is important?
Well basically, you'll be asked about it in the interview.
And so if you show that you haven't prepared, you haven't done any research, you show that
you don't care.
One of the best ways that you can impress in a job interview is to show that you know
about the company, important things like you know what kind of products they offer or what's
their largest market.
And I guess that really impresses the interviewer because it shows that you are interested in
this company and they really want the job.
And that you are willing to do the extra work it takes to prepare yourself.
Because I think that will show the interviewer that later on when you're working for them,
you'll do that extra work on the job.
That's a really good point.
So that's our first point, our first tip, to do some research.
Now you've done your research.
You know everything about the company.
What else should you do?
Once you've read up on the company, you've got to spend some time thinking about yourself.
You've got to prepare to sell yourself to the company.
So to sell yourself, to really demonstrate them why you are the perfect person for the
job.
Because a lot of people think about why they want to work for the company, right?
Because they feel like they're aligned with the core values or the message of the company
resonates with them.
But what the interviewer really wants to hear is how you, the interviewee, is going to benefit
the company.
What are you going to bring to the company?
And this is the most important part, is to know what are your skills, right?
And it's not enough to just say, well, I am a great leader.
So if you are a great leader, you should be ready to give an example of how you have demonstrated
to be a great leader.
So maybe like an example like, I'm a really strong leader because in my previous job,
I had the best JD Power ratings for employee satisfaction.
So you're actually showing with numbers or with facts that you are a great leader.
So the key thing here, I think, is identify what your strengths and skills are.
Think of specific examples.
If you can, give numbers and show how you can bring this skill and your experiences
to the new company.
And now, well, you're ready to sell yourself.
You've done your research.
Now you have all of these things in your mind.
You have to practice.
A much overlooked stage in the preparation.
A lot of people think it through.
They write things down, but don't really practice.
So I know you have a few tips about how you can practice interviewing effectively.
Well, the first thing that you should do is use your friends.
They got to be good for something.
And well, probably your friends are also working at a company.
Maybe they're managers, or maybe they've interviewed someone before already.
So you can set up a mini interview and have them pretend that they are the interviewer
and ask you these questions.
And you're trying to answer seriously.
And I'm sure that your friends can give you some great feedback.
Maybe what you did right, maybe what you did wrong.
So that's a really good way.
And another thing is also you can record yourself.
If you have a video camera or even a web, I mean, many people have a webcam like right
in your laptop.
Record yourself actually doing the practice interview with your friends.
And this is really useful because you can later see what you recorded and detect some
of the things that maybe aren't really useful or good.
You know, for example, posture is a really important aspect.
So what do you mean posture?
So the way that you are sitting down in your seat.
And how you are expressing yourself with your hands.
Some people, you know, they move a lot during the interview because of course you're nervous.
So maybe they're moving from side to side or playing with their feet or playing with
something on the table or moving their hands in an awkward way.
So those are the things that you have to watch out for.
So I guess it's really important to sit up straight and to show that you are powerful
and in control.
And another really great thing is eye contact, right?
We were talking about this earlier.
And why is eye contact so important?
If an interviewee maintains eye contact with me for like most of the interview, I feel
like they have really good people skills.
In my opinion, I would say they have a lot of self-confidence.
Yeah, I'd agree.
Because if a person is looking down or not looking directly at you, it's either one of
two things in my opinion.
It's either they are not confident enough with themselves or they are lying to you.
Or also they just they don't have good people skills.
Which is a problem in today's sort of knowledge-based economy.
So it's really important to maintain eye contact.
And one other really important thing related to eye contact posture is the handshake.
When you get to the interview, it's really, really important to give a firm, good handshake.
So what qualifies as a firm, good handshake?
Well, you don't have to prove that you are ultra strong, right?
So you don't have to squeeze the other person's hand really hard.
And like break their hand.
It's not like a strength contest.
A good firm handshake is squeezing normally, not too tight, not too loose, but your entire
palm, your entire hand has to be in contact with the other person's palm or hand.
Don't give them the fingers, you know, like some people give you only four fingers or
half their hand.
I hate that.
I hate it too.
And this goes for men and for women because a lot of women do this.
I call this the dead fish handshake.
It is kind of like a dead fish or the dead hand handshake.
I absolutely agree with you on this one.
So nice firm handshake.
So that's the dead fish handshake and well, these are our tips for preparing for the interview,
everything you have to do before it.
I'm sure there are a lot more things out there.
So and I'm sure our users have some insight on this as well.
I'd love to hear it because like I told you, I love job interviews.
So come to our website at EnglishPod.com.
Leave us your comments.
Maybe you've had a good experience with a job interview or maybe a bad one or maybe
even as an interviewer, you've interviewed some really interesting people.
And you've got some great tips to share with us.
So come to our website, leave your questions, leave your comments, share your experiences
with our other users.
And Erica and I will also be there to participate in the discussion.
Well, thanks for listening.
And today we're bringing you our great suspense, scary series.
Our thriller.
Our thriller, New Guy in Town, part four.
Well, I don't want to give you any hints about what will happen in this dialogue.
Yes, it's totally unexpected.
So let's listen to our dialogue and then we'll come back and talk about some of the great
vocabulary.
Drag her over here and help me tie her up.
I can't believe she fell for it.
She is a lot more gullible than I thought.
Well, you got to admit my acting was brilliant.
I was the one that convinced her to come.
Look, she's waking up.
What's going on, Ellen?
What are you doing?
The cat's out of the bag, you witch.
You can stop pretending now.
Yeah, Lois, we know who you are.
Now we want some answers.
Why are you here?
You don't know who you're dealing with.
You can't stop me.
Well, I certainly didn't see that one coming.
I know everyone thought that Armand was a vampire.
And now it turns out that they were acting.
Yeah, crazy.
Crazy, huh?
Strange things happen here on EnglishPod.
All right, so why don't we take a look at some of the language that we saw in Language
Well, we have three words for you here that we heard in the dialogue.
And the first one, Armand tells Ellen to drag her over here.
Right, drag.
Drag.
So when you drag something or somebody.
You pull them across the floor or pull them across the ground.
Pull them, but you don't actually pick them up, right?
Their body is still touching the ground.
Okay, so just imagine if you have a really heavy suitcase, it doesn't have any wheels,
you got to drag it across the floor.
I've been there.
Yeah, it's happened to me too.
So drag.
And then he says, tie her up.
Tie her up.
Tie somebody up.
So to tie somebody up.
To use rope and put it around a person so that they cannot move.
So you take rope, you tie a person up.
And it's always used like this, right?
Tie him up.
Tie that up.
I like this one.
Fools.
So our singular would be fool.
Yeah, F-O-O-L.
So what's a fool?
Well, a fool is a stupid person.
A person that doesn't know something.
Or an ignorant person.
Well, Lois thinks that Armand and Ellen are fools here.
Apparently, she got really angry and managed to escape from the chair or whatever.
She was tied up, right?
Well, the dialogue was a little bit fast.
There was a lot of sound effects as well.
So let's listen to this dialogue again.
And I'm sure it's going to be a little bit easier to understand.
Well, you got to admit, my acting was brilliant.
Yeah, Lois.
We know who you are.
Fools!
Run!
So Marco, I noticed in this dialogue, there's a lot of words and phrases that we can use
to talk about lying or fooling somebody.
There is a lot of language about lying.
So let's take a look at it in Fluency Builder.
So in Fluency Builder today, let's take a look at four phrases.
The first one, fell for it.
Fell for it.
Okay, so it's not that she physically fell, right?
But she believed the lie.
She believed the lie.
You fell for the lie.
I know that we have some examples so we can understand this phrase, fell for it, a little
He might seem like a nice guy, but don't fall for it.
He's a jerk.
I can't believe I fell for your lies.
I told my mom I was going to the library and she fell for it.
Well, that's a lot clearer to me.
I noticed that we have the preposition it here.
It is at the end and it's referring to the lie.
Or the joke or the story.
She fell for the story.
But you wouldn't say she fell for the story.
You would say she fell for it.
So these three words always, always, always go together.
So don't forget the it.
Don't forget the it.
Gullible.
So Ellen thinks that Lois was gullible.
A gullible person.
A gullible person is somebody that always believes.
They always fall for it.
They believe anything you say.
So you were a little bit gullible when you were younger, right?
My grandmother used to tell me every year she would say, oh, I'm 35.
I'm 35.
And I really believed her until I was about 12 years old.
So you were really gullible.
Really gullible.
But you're not anymore.
I know better.
So gullible.
Now let's look at the next phrase.
The cat's out of the bag.
The cat is out of the bag.
So again, it's not literal.
It's not like you had a cat in a bag and you let it out.
A nice idiom here, meaning the truth is out.
The truth is out.
We discovered the truth.
So imagine that the cat is the truth.
And it escaped.
So the cat's out of the bag.
We know the truth now.
So let's look at our last phrase.
Pretending.
So Lois was pretending to be a normal housewife.
Let's listen to some examples of how we would use pretending.
Pretend that you're my boyfriend and he'll go away.
I can't believe Lucy pretended to be sick.
Don't pretend that everything is okay.
So pretending is acting like you are somebody that you are not.
Or, yeah, it's sort of like acting a lie.
So for example, on Halloween, everyone dresses up as a monster or Spider-Man or something.
So everyone pretends to be that character.
But they are not.
So let's listen to her dialogue one more time and then we'll come back and talk some more.
Okay so what do you think will happen in part five?
Well what do you guys think will happen in part five?
Actually Armand isn't a vampire anymore.
But Lois is a witch.
Who's Ellen?
What sort of twist are we going to see here?
Is she an alien?
We don't know what will happen but you can tell us what you think will happen.
Come to our website at EnglishPod.com and leave all your questions and comments and
maybe your story ideas.
Yes, Marco and I are always around to answer your questions and to respond to your comments.
So guys, I think we're out of time for today but thanks for listening.
And we'll see you next time.
Have a great week.
And today we're swimming.
A nice summertime lesson for everyone.
A summertime lesson.
So we're going to be talking about swimming and, well, it's a very popular sport, right?
So this is another lesson in our sports series.
In our sports series.
So why don't we preview some of the language we'll find in the dialogue.
Ready preview.
We have two words to look at here.
The first word is sailing.
Sailing.
Well, this is the verb to sail, right?
So sailing is traveling in a boat.
In a boat with no engine.
So you must use the wind to push you forward.
That's a sailboat.
So sailing.
Now let's take a look at our other word.
Anchor.
Another boat word here.
Now, it's spelled A-N-C-H-O-R.
But you don't pronounce the C-H as you normally would, right?
Another one of these really difficult to spell English words.
So you don't say anchor, you would say anchor.
So the anchor is a verb and a noun.
So when anchor is used as a noun, it means the hook that you throw over the boat into
the water and it keeps you staying in the same place.
But the verb to anchor.
To do that.
To do that, right?
So to throw the anchor into the water, you would just say to anchor the boat.
To keep it in the same place.
Great words related to sailing.
But now let's listen to our dialogue for the first time.
What's happening here, Erika?
We've got two friends here who are sailing in their boat and they decide to take a swim.
Let's see what happens.
This is such a beautiful day.
Great day for sailing.
It sure is.
The water looks so nice.
Anchor the boat for a little while.
I'm going to take a dip.
Why are you doggy paddling?
I taught you how to swim.
Do your breast stroke.
I get too tired.
I'll just backstroke.
It's easier.
Try kicking your legs more.
That's good.
Don't go out too far.
It's fine.
Jump in.
Kathy, get back here.
I see a shark.
Help me.
Bring the boat closer.
The shark is coming straight towards me.
It's right under you.
Kathy.
So a shark attack.
This is my worst fear when swimming.
Really in the ocean, right?
Well, also in the lake, but...
No sharks in lakes.
I know, but I'm still afraid of them.
All right, so don't worry about it.
I'm sure the girl is okay.
It's probably not a shark.
Maybe it was a dolphin.
Yeah, or maybe she's going to punch the shark in the face and she'll escape.
Let's take a look at some of the words that we saw in Language Takeaway.
We have three excellent swimming words for you.
The first one is doggy paddling.
Doggy paddling.
So doggy paddling.
It's not really a proper way of swimming, right?
No, you don't see this in the Olympics.
So if you've ever seen a dog swim, that's why they call it doggy paddling.
You're sort of moving your hands quickly in front of you.
And your legs are all over the place.
And you're basically not really swimming.
You're just trying to stay afloat.
You're trying not to drown.
Trying not to sink.
Again, this can be a noun or a verb.
It's either doggy paddle, this swimming style, or doggy paddling, the verb.
Interesting.
Let's take a look at our second swimming style.
Breaststroke.
The breaststroke.
How is this one?
Well, it's sort of like swimming like a frog.
So you have your legs that are similar to like a frog, right?
And what are your hands doing?
Your hands are moving in front of you together, then out towards the side.
So you're kind of doing like circles.
Half circles.
But you get kind of tired when you swim like this, right?
Now, let's take a look at our third word.
Backstroke.
So this one is pretty easy.
Backstroke, you are?
Lying on your back.
In the water.
And you're kicking your feet as well.
But what are your hands doing?
They're going back behind you.
See, I'm doing it now.
Can you see?
If you guys could be here in the studio, you would see Erika doing her backstroke.
I'm pretty good at it.
So let's listen to this dialogue again, and then we'll come back and look at some great
phrases.
Do your breaststroke.
Help me!
Kathy!
Okay, so we have some really good phrases related to swimming and water.
Okay, let's take a look at these in Fluency Builder.
All right, the first one.
Take a dip.
So if I say, I'm going to take a dip.
You're going to have a quick swim.
A quick swim.
So you can take a dip in the pool.
In the lake.
In the ocean.
Even in your bathtub, right?
No?
No, it's just for swimming.
Unless your bathtub is really, really, really big.
All right, so not for the bathtub, but for swimming.
Now, let's take a look at our second phrase.
For a little while.
This is really common.
I use this a lot.
I probably use it 500 times a day.
Okay, so let's listen to some examples with for a little while, and then we'll come back
and explain it.
I'm tired.
I'm just going to sit down for a little while.
It will only hurt for a little while.
Do you want to play tennis for a little while?
So it means for a short time.
For a short time.
And you can change it, right?
You can say, oh, I'm going to play for a little while.
Yeah, or I'm going to sleep for a little while.
All right, so if learners use this phrase, I find it sounds really, really great because
it's not something that students normally use.
Yeah, I guess a student wouldn't really use this phrase normally.
Yeah, so guys, use it because you'll sound awesome.
Yeah, you'll sound really, really fluent.
Okay, and let's take a look at our last phrase.
Straight towards.
Straight towards me.
Okay, so straight means directly.
Right, in a line.
In a line, not going anywhere else, but directly.
Not moving side to side.
And towards is in that direction.
So the shark was coming straight towards me, it's coming directly at me.
Moving in a line and not moving side to side.
Okay, so can you give me another example of how you would use straight towards?
The shark is coming straight towards you.
Okay, directly towards you.
Yeah, or maybe when I get home from work, I go straight towards the fridge.
I believe this.
All right, so straight towards, directly.
Okay, so we've looked at a lot of great words, really good phrases.
Let's listen to this dialogue one last time and then we'll come back and Erica is going
to tell us a really great story about boat.
Cathy, get back here.
Cathy!
All right, well, Marco, I was telling you that I used to spend every summer on the lake
and my family had a really small house on a small island and my cousins had another
small house on another small island.
So our families are really close and we used to go to one house for dinner one night and
the other house to dinner the next night.
So everyone was over at my cousin's house except for my grandfather.
And so he was thinking, okay, it's late, maybe I better go pick up my wife and see what's
going on.
So he goes into the boat.
It's dark.
There's no light on the boat.
He's driving straight towards the island when suddenly my cousin in his boat drives directly
into my grandfather.
So they crashed.
They crashed.
Two boats crashed in the lake.
And then my grandfather's boat flipped over.
It turned upside down.
And he fell in the water.
But he was okay, right?
Yeah, he was okay.
He was really angry about this.
And the boat?
The boat stayed in the water and the engine fell down to the bottom.
So we had to go the next morning to get the boat.
And we actually had to hire some scuba divers to go to the bottom of the lake to get the
engine.
I imagine your grandpa was pretty angry.
He tells the story.
Every year.
I've got a million of these crazy lake stories because my family.
It always happens.
Well, do you have any crazy stories or any stories related to boats or to swimming?
Or to shark attacks?
Or shark attacks?
So come to our website, EnglishPod.com.
Leave your stories.
Share with us.
And also, if you have any doubts or questions, Erika and I are always there to answer.
Well, we're out of time for this lesson.
And today we're going to be bringing you the second part of our job interview series.
So this is an advanced lesson and we're going to be talking about educational background
and experience.
So in the first part we saw preparing for a job interview.
Now we are at the job interview and we're just going to be talking about your educational
background and your job experience.
And the language we're going to learn is going to focus mostly on these two areas.
So let's take a look at some of the difficult words before we listen to the dialogue in
vocabulary preview.
So we're going to talk about a few common words that have to do with education.
Now the first word, I think we might know this one, but there's a little trick to it.
So the first one is major.
Major.
So, yeah, I guess everyone knows what a major is, right?
Yeah, it's the main subject that you study in university.
So you can study business as a major or...
History.
So, but you can also use it as a verb, right?
I majored in history.
Majored in.
So usually it's followed by the preposition in.
Yes, always.
In fact.
So it's used as a verb.
I majored in science.
I majored in business.
So you can say my major is business administration or history, or you can say I majored in business.
And the same pattern applies to minor.
So minor.
This is really interesting because this is more common in English speaking countries,
So what exactly is a minor?
Well, just like your major, but smaller.
So if you major in history, maybe 60% of your classes are in history and you minor in French,
maybe 30 or 40% of your classes are in French.
So basically you can have two subjects in your degree.
You can have a major in business with a minor in art.
And another two simple words, a bachelor's degree.
Bachelor's degree.
A bachelor's degree is what you get after going to university for four years.
So you get a master's degree after four years, you get that.
After that you get a master's degree.
So that's another two years after your bachelor's degree.
And I guess a master's is more focused on an area, right?
More specialized.
And then the highest degree you can get is a PhD.
Which is a philosophy doctorate, right?
But you're not actually getting a degree in philosophy.
You're getting a PhD in international relations.
But this is really hard to get.
You have to go to school for another five or six years, right?
And it's a lot of research and not many people have it.
Anyway, some simple words.
It's quite unique to the English speaking world, this system.
So we thought we'd bring it to you now.
So now let's listen to this guy who is at an interview and he's going to be talking about
his education and work experience.
Thanks for coming in today.
Did you have any trouble finding us?
Please, take a seat.
So let's get started.
Tell me a bit about your educational background.
Well, I graduated with honors from Chesterson University with a major in business administration
with a specialization in information management and I minored in psychology.
I chose this course of study for two reasons.
I wanted to gain some practical marketable skills, which the information management track
provided.
And I also feel that the interpersonal skills are essential for professional success.
Hence the minor in psychology.
And your postgraduate studies?
Well, I am really passionate about consumer behavior.
So I pursued a master's in that area.
I also strive to keep my professional skills current.
So I continuously attend seminars and conferences related to management and customer service.
Now, tell me a little bit about your work experience.
I see here that you previously worked at Oracle.
Yeah, I worked as their customer support manager, which brought me a breadth of experience in
both client care and process management.
I supervised and coordinated the customer support team as well as implemented new strategies
to achieve better customer satisfaction.
Yes, in this position, I was able to make some pretty significant contributions to the
overall success of the company.
With the different initiatives that we implemented, we lowered our churn rate to about 5%, which
had a direct impact on revenue.
Well those are some pretty good answers to those questions, but I don't know, Marco.
There was a little awkward moment.
I don't know if you guys heard it.
Natural body...
Functions.
Oh dear.
Well, making the interview a little bit more interesting, right?
It doesn't have to be boring.
But what is really interesting is some of the language he used to describe his educational
background and work experience.
So let's look at that now in Language Takeaway.
Okay, so in Language Takeaway today, we have seven words that we want to focus on before
we give you some tips about doing well on a job interview.
So let's take a look at the first word.
Course of study.
A course of study.
So what is a course of study exactly?
Basically, it's like a plan of study or a path of study.
Okay, so his course of study was...
Business administration.
So that is his course of study.
Now let's take a look at our second word.
Track.
So he said he wanted to gain some practical, markable skills that the information management
track provided.
So what does he mean by this track?
Again, basically, the track of study is like the path of study.
So the direction of your study.
Okay, so I guess it would be like, think of a train and the train tracks, right?
Where the train travels.
So that's where it's taking you.
That's the path that he followed or you should follow or you want to follow.
Okay, that's pretty interesting.
Now let's take a look at our third word and it's a really nice conjunction.
Hence.
H-E-N-C-E.
So it sounds fancy, but what does it mean?
So therefore.
So you can use it as a conjunction between two ideas.
So he said, what would be an example of how you could use hence?
You could say, the economy is doing poorly, hence people are losing their jobs.
Therefore, in consequence.
So.
But it just sounds a lot more like professional.
Formal.
So try and use this conjunction hence, right?
Instead of saying so, therefore.
Use it.
Okay, our fourth word.
Pursued.
He pursued a master's.
So to pursue.
To chase after something.
To chase after.
So you can pursue a master's degree like he did?
So a promotion.
A dream.
Nice one.
Can you pursue a girl?
Yes, you can.
So pursue, to chase.
Now, let's look at our next word.
Strive.
Another great word you can use in talking about your experience.
To strive is to try really hard.
To try really hard.
So I know we have some examples for strive.
Let's take a listen.
Okay great examples of strive.
To fight.
Now, the next word, I didn't really know what it meant.
So this is really interesting.
Breadth.
So it's kind of like saying bread, but adding a th at the end.
Breadth of experience.
So this basically means it's wide.
So when you have a great breadth of experience, you have a wide variety of experience.
So maybe in different fields or in different jobs.
So you can have experience like in marketing and in a little bit in finance and a little
bit in management.
A breadth of experience.
And now for the last word, it's actually three in one.
A three in one deal.
That actually they are very related.
So when he talked about his work experience, he was saying he supervised and coordinated
the customer support team.
So he watched over, right?
And made things work together well.
To coordinate.
So there are really great verbs that you can use when you're talking about your job responsibilities.
I supervised.
I coordinated.
And here's another really great one that said to implement.
To implement.
To make something happen.
To put it in place.
So he implemented new strategies.
Implemented new policies.
To set in action.
So a lot of great vocabulary, a lot of great stuff.
And well, you can use it for when you are at a job interview.
And when we come back, we're going to give you some tips so you'll do well in this part
of the job interview.
Please take a seat.
with a specialization in information management.
And I minored in psychology.
I wanted to gain some practical, marketable skills, which the information management track
And I also feel that the interpersonal skills are essential for professional success, hence
the minor in psychology.
I worked as their customer support manager, which brought me a breadth of experience in
I supervised and coordinated the customer support team, as well as implemented new strategies
In this position, I was able to make some pretty significant contributions to the overall
success of the company.
Well, I want to talk about two main things.
And the first thing I want to talk about is how you address this question about your educational
background.
Like, what is the interviewer looking to find out?
So when you are talking about your educational background, you shouldn't only talk about
your college degree, right?
You should talk about any type of training that you've had.
I think it's really important to let the interviewer know that you're continually trying to update
your skills and improve your knowledge.
So any sort of courses or seminars that you might attend, this is a great chance to highlight
those.
And that's what the interviewer is looking for, right?
Also, any trade publications, any magazines that you read related to your job is a great
way to sort of highlight your desire to keep learning.
Well, I think that's really important because it's good that you went to a good university,
you got this degree and everything, but continuously training yourself and maybe just by listening
to business podcasts or reading specific magazines or stuff like that, that is demonstrating
that you care about what you do and that you are continuously learning, right?
So those are the main things to talk about in your educational background.
Now when this work experience question pops up, what should you really say?
When you're answering this question, I think there's something really important to keep
in mind.
What's that?
You want to make sure that you're being as specific as possible, right?
So giving examples of what you've done.
Like really specifically what you did, all of the sort of the main achievements you have.
So like for example, we saw in our dialogue that he talked about specific strategies that
he implemented to improve customer support in that company.
And then he gave some numbers.
He said, yeah, he lowered the churn rate to about 5%.
So it's so important whenever you can attach a number to your success or your achievement
to be able to do that in the interview really, really demonstrates your achievement.
I think that's really important.
And another thing when you're talking about previous jobs is make sure you keep it on
a positive note.
Even if your experience was not very good or you didn't like the company or you had
problems, you should avoid talking about that and always keep it on a positive note.
So if the interviewer asks you why you want to join this company, why you're looking to
leave your current job, you want to give these positive reasons.
I didn't do well because my boss was a jerk or I didn't like the company anymore.
You know, you should answer it with something positive like, well, I think I need a change
or this job opportunity is more aligned with what I want to do in the future, etc.
So positive always on your interviews and just again, prepare for these questions that
are always going to be there.
So Erica, I know that you've done a lot of interviews and I understand that you've had
a really weird question.
In an interview, I once got this question.
If you were a tree, what kind of tree would you be?
Yeah, I'm not kidding.
I really was asked that question.
What did you answer?
I think I said that I would want to be a willow tree because they're really beautiful.
Was that the right answer?
Like, what are you supposed to answer to that question?
I really don't know what the right answer was.
Well, some people, yeah, they'll ask you just, I don't know, random questions just to see
what your response is.
I think also maybe it's just how you deal with the pressure.
With the unexpected questions.
So it's like, that is pretty unexpected, but I guess you handle it pretty well.
Well, I mean, I got the job, so.
I want to know from our listeners, if they were a tree, what kind of tree they would
be?
And also tell us about, well, your job experience or your educational background.
Well, I know for example, that I've had a lot of different types of jobs.
I've even been that person that gets on the bus and charges people the money.
Like, you've had every job under the sun.
So, but it's great.
So tell us, what's the weirdest job you've had?
What's the craziest or the best job or any experiences?
Leave your questions and comments there on the website.
And we'll definitely be there to answer them.
And we hope to see you there.
And today we're bringing you a lesson that was requested by one of our listeners.
We got a request for a dialogue about a receptionist.
So a receptionist at an office or at a hotel.
So today's dialogue is simple but we're going to be looking at some really great phrases.
Yeah, phrases that will help you sound really, really professional and really fluent.
So we are at an office today and the receptionist is greeting somebody that has an appointment.
All right, let's see what happens.
Yes, I'm here to see Joanna Stevens.
I have an appointment at four.
May I take your name?
I'll let her know you've arrived.
It's Josh O'Neill.
Miss Stevens will be with you momentarily.
Can I offer you something to drink?
Yes, coffee would be nice.
Miss Stevens is ready for you now.
I'll show you to her office right this way.
Just watch your step here.
Well that's pretty embarrassing, hey?
That was embarrassing.
That's what happens to women when they wear high heels, see?
Actually that happened to me last weekend.
I fell down the stairs and my knees are quite blue.
Oh no, see?
High heels are dangerous.
I don't know why women wear them.
Well, I don't know, but that's not what we're here to discover.
Okay, so let's take a look at some of these great phrases in Fluency Builder.
I really liked how this receptionist used some excellent phrases to sound really professional.
One thing she said was, certainly.
So why did she say certainly?
Well this is a nice way to respond, to make the other person know that you understand
what they said.
So Josh O'Neil said, yes, I'm here to see you Joanna Stevens.
So she is saying, I understand what you said.
So she said, may I take your name?
So this is a nice way of saying, what is your name?
So, now this is really important because if you said, what is your name?
Is that correct?
It's correct, but it's not really very...
Or I would say polite to a certain extent.
So may I take your name?
So you use this phrase when you are going to write down the person's name.
So if you meet somebody on the street or at a bar, you wouldn't say, may I take your name?
Unless you're going to write it down.
So usually for an office setting where the receptionist has to write down the name.
Alright, one more phrase.
Ms. Stevens will be with you momentarily.
So, Ms. Stevens will be with you momentarily.
Will be with you momentarily.
Okay, so this is really polite.
Momentarily, what does that mean?
In a moment.
Soon.
Again, she could have said, Ms. Stevens will come out soon or Ms. Stevens will see you
But that's, again, it's not really that polite, right?
So if you want to be formal, you can say, Ms. Stevens will be with you momentarily.
That's a really nice phrase.
Alright, there's so much in this dialogue.
So many great, wonderful, polite phrases.
So why don't we listen to it one more time, but this time, slowed down.
It's Josh O'Neil.
Ms. Stevens is ready for you now.
I'll show you to her office.
Right this way.
Okay, so it's pretty clear now, but there are still a couple of phrases that I would
like to look at.
So why don't we look at the last two sentences?
Ms. Stevens is ready for you.
So when she says ready for you, what does that mean?
Prepared to speak to you.
So instead of saying Ms. Stevens is ready or Ms. Stevens can see you now, you use this
great little phrase, is ready for you.
And then she said I'll show you to her office.
This is a lovely way of saying I will take you to the office.
I will take you to the office.
And she followed it by saying right this way.
So again, walk this way.
Walk this way.
This way, please.
It sounds really, really nice, really polite, really welcoming.
And especially if you use it together, right?
I'll show you to her office right this way, please.
So it's a really great way of being polite to somebody at an office.
Now the final useful phrase, watch your step.
Watch your step.
So watch your step.
You see that everywhere in science.
Be careful.
Be careful where you step.
Be careful where you're walking.
So obviously she didn't watch her step and she fell.
She fell.
So really great phrases.
Let's listen to this dialogue one last time.
I'm here to see Joanna Stevens.
Coffee would be nice.
Alright so a really simple dialogue but with a lot of good phrases in there and it's also
a good review for more advanced students, right?
Remember like these phrases can really help you sound more professional, more welcoming,
more polite basically.
So if you have any questions or doubts, please come to our website EnglishPod.com.
And Marco and I are always around to respond to your questions and comments.
Okay guys.
So we'll see you there and until next time it's goodbye.
And today we're bringing you again the great series, I'm Sorry I Love You, Part 6.
The newest installment in the EnglishPod soap opera.
Drama, romance.
Love, tragedy.
All of it here at EnglishPod and in our series.
So today we have a really great dialogue.
I just can't believe what's happening here.
But before we get into it, we need to preview one word.
So let's take a look at it in Vocabulary Preview.
Well, we're going to preview this word.
Sleeping with.
Sleeping with someone.
Sleeping with him.
So, it seems pretty easy.
I mean, sleeping with, it just sounds like you are in bed with somebody.
Yeah, but you are doing a little bit more than sleeping.
So, in English, this phrase actually means that you are involved with someone and have
an intimate sexual relationship, right?
You are in a relationship with someone and you are having sex.
So be careful how you use it because I know that sometimes you want to translate and just
say, well, they are in the same bed together, but it's not that they're having sex.
And most of the time in English, the phrase sleeping with means sex.
Well, let's find out why are we talking about sleeping with?
Well, obviously, somebody is sleeping with somebody.
So let's listen to the dialogue and then we'll come back and talk about it.
I can't believe you've been sleeping with someone else.
How could you do this?
Wait.
Doctor, how is this possible?
I haven't cheated on my boyfriend.
I have something to confess.
I'm sorry, Veronica.
I lied.
Wait, what?
What do you mean?
You aren't even pregnant.
There's no bun in the oven.
I was just so overwhelmed with jealousy that I couldn't help myself.
Veronica, I love you.
What are you talking about?
Who are you?
It's me, Daniel.
Don't you remember me from high school?
I sat behind you in science class.
I used to go to every football game and watch you in the cheerleading squad.
You were insane.
We never even spoke.
Why did you lie like that to my boyfriend?
Because Veronica, it's not fair.
I love you.
I have since the first day we met.
Everything was going fine until that jerk came into the picture and ruined everything.
I went to med school and became a doctor for you.
You always said how you wanted to marry a doctor.
You will be mine now, one way or another.
I heard everything, you lying bastard.
Get your hands off of her.
Scandal again.
Just poor Veronica and Steven, I just, I don't know how their relationship could get
more complicated.
It's amazing.
They're having an amazing adventure in their love life.
I'm sure glad my love life looks nothing like this.
So we saw some really great words.
So let's take a look at them in Language Takeaway.
The words we're looking at now are about feelings.
And so let's take a look at the first one.
Confess.
To confess.
So confess.
When you confess something, you tell a secret that you've been hiding.
So that's pretty easy.
So you have a secret and you want to tell it to someone.
So you are confessing.
And it's usually something negative.
Negative.
So Marco, I confess that I stole $5 from you.
Oh, you did?
No wonder my wallet was lighter.
I shall not forgive you for this.
Overwhelmed.
I am overwhelmed.
So when I am overwhelmed, I am filled with emotion.
With emotion.
It can be good emotions and bad emotions, right?
But you just feel too much.
Like you're going to explode.
I am overwhelmed with joy.
Or I'm overwhelmed with work.
And I am overwhelmed with jealousy.
And that's our third word.
Jealousy.
So this is interesting because jealousy is the noun.
It's the feeling of being jealous.
Which is the adjective.
So what does it mean when you are jealous?
It means that you see somebody and you want what they have.
You want what they have.
So in this case, the doctor is jealous of Veronica's boyfriend because the doctor wants
Veronica.
Jealous.
So, Erica, are you a jealous wife?
Maybe a little bit.
Maybe even to the extent of telling someone that they're pregnant.
And let's take a look at our next two words which are actually kind of insults, right?
They're not very kind words at all.
But you got to learn them anyways.
Let's take a look at this one.
Jerk.
J-E-R-K.
So what does it mean if someone is a jerk?
A stupid and mean person.
Plain and simple as that.
Stupid and mean.
So, can a woman be a jerk?
It's mostly male but now it's becoming more common to use with women as well.
So I can say he is a jerk or she is a jerk.
But it is more common for men.
And now, let's take a look at our last word.
You lying bastard.
Bastard.
Wow, this is pretty strong as well.
You got to be careful about this one.
This one is almost a swear word.
Almost.
Like on the line.
So what does it mean if you call someone a bastard?
Well, literally, it means your mother and father were not married when you were born.
When you were born.
So, it is a pretty big insult.
A little bit, I guess.
But it doesn't really, really mean that your mother and father weren't married.
It means that you are a jerk.
You are a jerk.
You are a really big jerk.
You are a mean person.
A really mean person.
So jerk isn't as strong as a bastard, right?
Bastard is stronger.
So you got to be careful when you throw that word in there or how you would use it.
And again, it's for men, right?
Not for women.
You can't use this word with women.
There is another one out there but that will have to wait for another English pod.
Well, apparently, all of these words are just for men.
What did we do wrong?
Marco, I can't begin to tell you.
So let's listen to our dialogue again and then we'll come back and look at some great
You're insane.
This is Veronica, it's not fair.
Alright so great stuff, jerk, bastards, all that good words going around.
But we've also got some amazing phrases.
So why don't we take a look at those now in Fluency Builder.
Alright so in Fluency Builder today we have three great phrases.
Bun in the oven.
A bun in the oven.
Okay, this is obviously an idiomatic phrase, right?
Well, it could be literal as well, right?
Like you could actually have a piece of bread in your oven.
Right, bun is a piece of bread in the oven.
But in this context we're not using it.
No, it means you're pregnant.
So the baby is the bun.
And the oven is your stomach.
So you say she has a bun in the oven.
Yes, she's pregnant.
She's pregnant.
So it could be difficult to understand if you don't really have the explanation, right?
You would say what?
She has bread in the oven?
Yeah, a bun in the oven.
Now let's take a look at a second one.
Couldn't help myself.
I couldn't help myself.
So when you can't help yourself, you can't control yourself.
You did something but you couldn't control it.
You couldn't stop it.
Okay, so let's listen to some examples of how you would use I couldn't help myself because
it's a phrase that you can use in many different ways, right?
I just couldn't help myself when I saw your car.
I just had to buy it.
I just started laughing.
The cake was so good.
I ate it all.
All right, perfect.
Easy.
Now, the doctor, he couldn't help himself from lying to Veronica because he was angry
that her boyfriend, Steven, came into the picture.
Came into the picture.
To come into the picture.
Okay, so what does it mean when somebody comes into the picture?
Well, basically, you appear in somebody's life.
You come into somebody's life.
So imagine that your life is a picture and somebody all of a sudden comes into it.
They come into the picture.
They come into your life.
Come into your life.
So he's angry that Steven appeared into Veronica's life and they're in love and all that stuff.
Well, these are some great phrases and why don't we listen to them again in context?
So let's listen to the dialogue.
Okay so Veronica's not pregnant.
That was a close one.
Actually they're not married.
So this is a very controversial topic, right?
Being knocked up.
Yes, nice phrase.
So there's a lot of interesting phrases and ways you can talk about pregnancy.
So if you're knocked up, you're pregnant.
Right, so you could hear that in movies.
It's not really, I would say, a proper way of saying it.
No, it's not that polite because it gives you the idea that it was a mistake.
So you would say, she got knocked up.
Yes, another common phrase is preggers.
Preggers, I heard this is more Australian, right?
She's preggers, so she's pregnant.
So it's actually a pretty interesting topic.
I know that for example, in Latin America, if a girl that's maybe in her early 20s gets
pregnant accidentally by her boyfriend, usually the families expect them to get married.
Yeah, so it's kind of like, should they get married, should they not?
So there's a lot of pressure.
A lot of pressure.
But it's different in other countries, right?
So I don't know, for you guys, what's it like in your country where you live?
Is there pressure on the guy and the girl to get married?
I mean, should Steven and Veronica get married in this situation?
Or what about just living together?
Or as they say, living in sin, right?
Living in sin.
Living together, living in sin.
So is it okay to just live together with your girlfriend or should you get married before?
This is a controversial topic, so we'll have a lot of different opinions, but it should
be interesting.
Yes, so visit our website and tell us what you think, EnglishPod.com.
All right guys, we'll see you there.
And we're bringing you the final lesson of our job interview series.
And in this lesson, we're going to be focusing on two very, very common, but sometimes difficult
Okay, so we've talked about preparing for the job interview in part one.
Part two, we talked about educational background and work experience.
And in part three, what are we going to be looking at?
We're going to be looking at two questions, why we should hire you and your greatest weakness.
Okay, so these are the classic common questions that you'll get at a job interview, right?
So why don't we just get started and we'll take a listen to the dialogue and see how
our interviewee handles these questions.
Now, I have a couple of final questions.
I hope they're not too hard.
Well, why should we hire you?
I think that I would be a perfect fit in this company.
I have a unique combination of strong technical acumen with outstanding soft skills.
You know, I excel at building strong, long-term consumer relationships.
For example, when I headed the customer support department in my previous company, our team
resolved about 70% of our customers' problems.
I decided that we needed better information and technical preparation on our products.
So after I implemented a series of training sessions in coordination with our technical
department, we were able to solve 90% of our customers' issues.
Given the opportunity, I could bring this kind of success to this company.
Impressive.
So, what would you consider to be your greatest weakness?
To be honest, I struggle with organization and time management.
Punctuality has never been a strength of mine.
I find it hard to organize my time effectively.
I've actually addressed this weakness recently by attending a workshop on efficient time
management.
It helped me a lot by providing me with great insights on how to get organized and use my
time efficiently.
So, I think I'm getting better now.
Well, let me tell you that I am very pleased with this interview.
We are shortlisting our candidates this week.
And next week, we will inform our shortlisted candidates of the day and time for a second
interview with our CEO.
Thanks a lot.
I hope to hear from you.
Well, our interviewee is doing very well, but I think he had a little bit too many beans
or chili.
Like, this is probably the most embarrassing thing I can think of.
But he doesn't say anything.
So, I don't know.
Maybe he should have said, oh, pardon me, excuse me or something.
It's a controversy.
But what isn't a controversy is the language because there's some great stuff in here.
Let's take a look at the language in Language Takeaway.
We've got some great phrases and words for you to use when you're talking about what
sort of benefits and skills and experience and expertise you can bring to a company.
The first thing that he said, and it's a very interesting word, he said, technical acumen.
Technical acumen.
Acumen.
This is a really hard word.
What is acumen?
It's basically insight and understanding and the ability to make good and difficult decisions.
So, he has a very strong technical acumen.
So, a strong insight or understanding of technical issues.
Or I can change it and may say, I have a very strong business acumen.
So, these are the two most common ways that this word is used, technical acumen, business
acumen.
Now, let's take a look at another word which is very interesting because everybody knows
Excel.
Now, Excel is, of course, the software that you use, right?
But here, it's a verb meaning to be really, really good at something.
To be the best maybe.
To excel at something.
So, I excel at cooking.
So, Excel, you are the best.
That's not really going to help me in a job interview, but the next word might.
Head.
Well, in the dialogue, we heard it as headed in the past, right?
He headed the customer support department.
So, I think this is a great word to use when you were saying, I was the leader.
I was the main person in charge.
Yeah, the manager.
So, this is a nice verb to use to show that you were leading something.
Now, for the next word.
To struggle.
So, what does struggle mean?
It means that you have difficulty doing something.
So, it's hard for you.
For example, when I was in school, I struggled with math.
And now, I struggle with Chinese.
So, to have a hard time.
Why don't we hear a couple of examples of how this word is used?
We're really struggling to reach our sales target.
Yeah, to be honest, I do struggle with time management.
The teacher farted in class and I really had to struggle not to laugh.
So, great examples.
Let's move on to our next word.
Punctuality.
So, to be punctual.
It means to be on time, always.
Always.
So, punctuality would be the noun form.
So, the condition or the state of always being on time.
So, punctuality, to be punctual.
And our interviewee struggles with punctuality.
I guess you guys have something in common.
We do.
Now, he has a problem with punctuality, but he said he has addressed this weakness.
Yes, to address.
Address.
Now, if you notice, it's spelled the same way as address.
But you pronounce it differently.
So, the verb address has the stress on the second syllable.
And that means to...
Deal with.
To deal with the problem.
To acknowledge the problem.
And to try and solve it.
So, different from your home address where you live.
And there, the stress is on the first syllable.
So, let's listen to this dialogue one more time, and then we'll come back and talk about
these two questions.
Greatest weakness and why should we hire you?
So, I have a couple of final questions.
I excel at building strong, long-term consumer relationships.
So after, I implemented a series of training sessions in coordination with our technical
department.
We were able to solve 90% of our customers' issues.
All right, Marco.
Well, this classic question, why should we hire you?
I think you'll hear it in many, many different interviews.
And how did he deal with it here?
Well, the first thing that he said is very, very important because they're asking you
why so your immediate reaction would be to answer with because or I think that.
But there's a different way of approaching it, which is a little bit more professional.
He said, I think that I would be a perfect fit in this company.
I think I would be a perfect fit in this company.
That's how he started his answer.
And then he explained why.
So this sounds really strong, doesn't it?
Yeah, basically, it just makes you seem to be very confident and puts you like you are
already part of the company.
So this is a great way to start off this question.
But you got to follow this up with some information.
So what kind of information should you be giving?
Well, like we talked about in your work experience, the same thing goes here.
What do you have to offer to this company?
What special skills or insights or experience can you bring that would help us?
Yeah, that nobody else can bring.
So again, you have to start talking about your strengths and your previous experience,
but with examples, right?
Very, very specific examples.
And whenever you can throw in some numbers or some specific successes that you have had.
And once you've talked about these things, you can close off this answer by saying, given
the opportunity, I could bring this kind of success to this company.
So that is just like a magical sentence saying like, if you give me the chance, I will demonstrate
how good I am and how I can help this company.
A really, really strong closing argument.
So that's the way you should more or less approach that question, right?
All right, but let's turn now to the classic, classic question.
Your greatest weakness.
What is your greatest weakness?
When you get this question, be sure to not say, my greatest weakness is I work too much.
My greatest weakness is I'm a workaholic.
Or what was it?
Oh, or I am a perfectionist.
Yeah, these we can see right through these.
I mean, they're too obvious and they're too, they're too silly.
I mean, everyone has a weakness, so don't try and turn it around into a strength.
I just don't think that's a good idea.
So yeah, be sure to stay away from these answers, but you can say anything.
Like in this case, he has a problem with being on time.
So be honest, say what one of your greatest weaknesses are.
But the key to making this weakness look good is saying what you are doing to solve this
weakness.
So really be truthful.
Tell the interviewer what you're not good at because there's obviously something that
you're not good at.
So you can say, I am usually late, but I am getting more organized.
I am doing the seminar.
Let the interviewer know that you are trying to improve this weakness.
And be sure to also think about your strength, right?
Be prepared to answer the question, what is your greatest strength?
So and again, when you're talking about your strengths, be sure it's something more specific
than saying, oh, I'm very responsible.
You want to be as specific as you can.
And again, give those examples, give those successes, give those numbers.
So think about your weaknesses.
Think about your strengths.
If you don't know them, ask people, ask your colleagues or ask your friends, what do you
think is my greatest strength?
Maybe you're a funny person.
That's a strength.
Well, remember there are three parts to this interviewing series and you can find them
on our website at EnglishPod.com.
Come to our website EnglishPod.com.
You can look at all of these three lessons and I hope they are really helpful.
And of course, if you have any questions or comments or maybe you'd like a little bit
more of this interview series, let us know.
Good luck in your interviews and until next time.
And today we're going to be bringing you a great lesson about calling the office.
So in this lesson, we're going to teach you some great words that you can use when you
need to call your office to solve a problem.
So, you are at home, you have a problem, maybe you can't go to the office, so you have to
call them and tell them that you're not going to be able to go.
So, we're not going to preview anything today because the dialogue is relatively easy.
So let's listen to the dialogue for the first time and then we'll come back and look at
some words.
Hello, hey, Anil Day, Ekings Bay.
Aue, eimea, aealp, hei, ui, ee.
Aue, Anil Day.
Uli Jay, ir hei.
Aue, Uli Jay.
Aue, aealp, hei, ui, ee.
Actually, I'm eating, fei, aeq, hei, ee, lu, te, day.
I'm already say, ute, ir, hei, ate.
Atwe, zang, rei.
I think, te, I'm, am, en, kei, aun, day, it, te, ho, te, lu, fei.
I have, hei, ee, ere, kei.
Or, say, ho, te, ani, rei, oz, nei.
And I'm eating, fei, light, li, sei, ir, sh, fei.
I, ee, sei.
O, sei, or, yei, auling, kei, and, ik, sei.
Es, yei.
I, uz, wei, open, hei, ute, ate, of, te, ik, ku, rei, rei.
O, kei, and, nei.
I, trei, an, et, gei, aum, sei, es, trei.
All right, so a pretty easy dialogue, right?
Yeah, pretty simple.
So there are a couple of words that we want to look at.
All right, well, today we're looking at three interesting words.
The first one is ouflay.
Ouflay.
Marco, what is the ouflay?
All right, so when you have the ouflay, it means that you are sick.
You have, it's very similar to a cold.
Right, but just worse, right?
Worse, yeah.
So when you have the ouflay, it'll keep you in bed for a while, for maybe a week or two.
So you have a fever, your body is hurting.
You're just, you're really sick.
Yeah, you're really sick.
So, ouflay.
All right, well, what about our next word?
Well, actually the next word is a phrase that you can use when you're calling the office.
Alin ke in iksei.
Okay, this is a really useful phrase and I think it would help us to hear some examples
of what it sounds like so we can understand the meaning.
Or fe iplpe ald ke in iksei ude te.
If uye ald ke in iksei, ant one orme ayn te, or ye ayrd fe.
Aymat ne iling fe aluwe, ose aym alin ke in iksei.
So with this phrase, you're basically saying that you are not going to the office.
So let's take a look at our last word for language takeaway.
Ikovore.
Okay, so it's a pretty simple word.
Ikovore means...
To get better, to start feeling healthy again.
Okay, so kind of to recharge your batteries.
So this is a great verb to use when you want to say I'm going to feel better.
So some really great words, some really interesting phrases.
So let's listen to this dialogue again and then we'll come back.
Hello, hey.
Anjelde Ikingspe.
Aujey, eime aayelp.
Ahey Anjelde.
Ulijee irhe.
Ahey, uliejee.
Aueyaayuhyee.
Actually, I'm ilingfe ikwee alewute de.
I'mare sei utee irhe evaluatee.
Adwaysongre.
I hencei amiment sensitivity honesy actinng high in a skill I am unable to penetrate and
tools.
I'm eating fae, lightly say, Irish fae.
I say, oh say, or yay, all in cayenne, ick say.
S yay, I us way, open hay, oo tay, ay tay, off tay, eek curry ray.
Okay in nay, I tray, and at gay, I'm say, S tray.
Alright Marco, have you ever found yourself in a situation like this?
Well, yeah, a couple of times that I haven't been able to really make it to the office and I've had to call.
So yeah, I would have to call and tell them that I'm not going to make it or maybe that I'm going to be a little bit late.
Alright, well, yeah, it happens to all of us and now you guys have all of this useful language next time you face this problem.
Exactly, so if you have any questions or comments, be sure to visit our website EnglishPod.com.
Marco and I are there to respond to your questions and comments.
As well, there are also lots of other great lessons for you to check out on the website.
Exactly, so be sure to check out some of our first lessons. I'm sure you'll find them useful as well.
Well, thanks for listening everyone and until next time.
Music
And today we're bringing you another great lesson about sports, part of our sports series.
And in this lesson, we are talking about maybe the world's most favorite sport.
One of the most popular sports in the world, soccer.
Or also known as football in other countries.
So, before we get started with this great lesson, let's take a look at some of the words
we'll find in the dialogue in Vocabulary Preview.
We're going to look at three words here.
The first word is wingman.
Wingman.
A wingman.
Now, wingman isn't really related to soccer in any way.
But it's a way of referring to somebody as your right hand.
So your helper.
Your helper.
Your number one guy.
So a wingman is someone who helps you a lot.
Our next word, tied.
Tied.
They are tied.
Now, this is an interesting word because tie can be a noun, verb, and an adjective, right?
So in this case, they are tied.
It's an adjective meaning...
They have the same score.
So a tie is...
Is a game that has ended with no winner or loser.
Both of them had the same score.
And so obviously, the verb to tie is to reach the same score as your other team.
Well, our third word can also be used as a noun and a verb and it is foul.
Fouled.
So, to foul somebody is to do something to them that is not allowed in the sport.
And so when you do this, you have committed a foul.
So you use it in the same way, to foul or a foul.
Well, we're going to hear these three words in context now.
So why don't we listen to our soccer dialogue?
Welcome back, soccer fans.
My name is Rick Fields.
And as always, I am joined by my commentating wingman, Bob Copeland.
And we're in the brink of soccer history today as Ecuador and Brazil are tied 1-1.
As we begin the second half of the 2022 World Cup.
The ref calls the players for the kickoff.
Ecuador quickly passes the ball to the midfield.
But oh, it's out of bounds.
That'll be a throw in for Brazil.
Adriano has the ball and makes a long pass to Robinho.
And the ref has called him offside.
No question about it.
He was offside by a mile.
We have a goal kick for Ecuador.
Edison Mendes heads it to Valencia.
Deflected by the defender.
And we have a corner kick.
Delgado takes the corner.
We have a foul.
Dida, the goalkeeper, has fouled the Ecuadorian player.
He gets a yellow card.
And that will be a penalty kick.
This is the perfect opportunity for Ecuador to get ahead in this match and become world
champions.
He gets ready for the kick.
And he...
OK, so Ecuador tied with Brazil in the 2022 World Cup.
Wow, Marco, I'm really happy to see that you are able to see so far into the future.
Well, I called it.
So in 2022, if we do win the World Cup, you know who said it first.
Do you have money on that?
So apart from this, we saw some really great vocabulary in this lesson.
So let's take a look at it now in Language Takeaway.
We've got a lot of soccer words for you, but they're all important.
Kick off.
So a kick off.
This is how you start a soccer game, right?
So in the beginning, the referee blows the whistle and you kick the ball to another player.
That's the kick off.
So our next phrase, out of bounds.
Out of bounds.
This is a great word.
So in soccer, when the ball goes out of bounds, it goes outside the white lines, right?
Outside of the playing field.
And you can use it in all other sports.
You can use it in basketball.
You can use it in tennis.
Or football or anything.
So any part that is not for playing.
What's our next word?
Throw in.
A throw in.
So a throw in.
The ball goes out of bounds.
How do you put it back into play?
Obviously, a throw in.
So you throw in the ball.
That's the only time where a soccer player will actually grab the ball with his hands.
Now, another soccer term we have here, offside.
Offside.
So this is a little bit difficult to explain.
But just imagine you're on the soccer field.
And you are trying to score a goal.
Now, you have some defenders, right?
Those are the people who are trying to take the ball away.
And you pass the ball to somebody who is behind the defenders.
Oh, and that person is offside.
So, you must be at all times in the same position as the defenders or in front of them.
But you can't be all the way in the back.
So is this a noun or a verb or an adjective?
So this is an adjective.
He is offside.
That's his condition.
Excellent explanation, Marco.
Now, we're going to look at three different phrases for three types of kicks in soccer.
So let's take a look at this.
The first one is goal kick.
A goal kick.
Goal kick.
So who does the goal kick?
It's usually the goalie or the goalkeeper who takes the goal kick.
So when the goalie kicks the ball.
Now, what about a corner kick?
So if the team is attacking and the ball goes out of bounds in the back area near the goal,
then they get a corner kick.
They've got to kick the ball from the corner of the field.
This is a great chance to score a goal, isn't it?
And what about a penalty kick?
Penalty kick.
So if a player gets fouled while he is in the area near the goal, he gets a penalty
kick.
So basically, it's just him.
I think it's 13 or 15 steps away from the goalie and he gets the opportunity to score
or to kick the ball.
So there are no defenders or other players in the way.
Nobody.
Another great chance to score a goal.
Well, these are all great soccer words.
I think we should hear them again in context.
So let's listen this time a little bit slower.
And we're on the brink of soccer history today as Ecuador and Brazil are tied 1-1 as we begin
the second half of the 2022 World Cup.
That will be a throw in for Brazil.
Adriano has the ball and makes a long pass to Rubinho.
Edison Mendez heads it to Valencia.
So we heard these words that we were talking about in context.
And now, some really interesting phrases came up.
And this would be a good time to take a look at them in Fluency Builder.
Well, Marco, there are three great phrases in this dialogue that I want to look at.
The first one, on the brink of.
We are on the brink of.
We're on the brink of soccer history.
So, on the brink of.
What exactly does that mean?
Well, why don't we hear some examples to help us understand the meaning.
Look, we don't have any money.
We're on the brink of going bankrupt.
The two countries are on the brink of war.
We're on the brink of an important discovery.
So great examples, on the brink of, at a critical point.
It means you're almost there, right?
And what about this next phrase that I saw and it was really interesting.
So, this is a statement that doesn't really make much sense.
But what am I saying when I say, oh, no question about it?
You're saying, I agree.
Well, let's give some examples.
I could say, there's no question about it.
Ecuador is a great soccer team.
There is no question about that.
So, or you can say, no question about it.
Our company makes the best products on the market.
So, really useful phrase that you can use in sports or anywhere else.
And now let's take a look at our last phrase for Fluency Builder.
And it's a really good one to exaggerate a little bit.
By a mile.
So, he was offside by a mile.
So, the commentator is saying that he was very offside.
That it was really obvious.
So, you can use that also in different contexts, maybe not in sports.
So, maybe we can say, our company is ahead of all the others by a mile.
Or if you tell somebody to guess your age and they say, oh, I think you are 42.
Oh, you could say, you're off by a mile.
So, you're really, really wrong.
So, it's a way of exaggerating a little bit.
And saying it's really obvious.
Well, three awesome phrases.
And I think it will help us to hear them one more time.
So, let's listen to the dialogue.
And we're in the brink of soccer history today as Ecuador and Brazil are tied 1-1 as we begin
The ref calls the players for the kickoff and here we go.
Adriano has the ball and makes a long pass to Ruigno.
He gets a yellow card and that will be a penalty kick.
He shoots and he...
Okay well, as you all may know, soccer is a very popular sport, especially in Latin
America.
And your favorite team, Ecuador, are they really this good in soccer?
Are they really going to win the 2022 Cup?
Well, maybe not.
Well, actually Ecuador has improved with time, but usually it's the strong teams like Argentina
and Brazil who dominate the region, right?
But yeah, hopefully we'll make it next time.
Okay, well, I have my money on Ecuador.
For 2022.
But yeah, not on Canada.
There's no hope for us.
Well, Canada is doing really well now.
They actually beat Mexico, if I'm not mistaken.
Oh, actually that's sort of...
Yeah, I kind of remember that now.
But I think there's no hope for us to beat Brazil or Argentina, one of these big countries.
We have the next World Cup coming up, so it's really exciting and I don't know who's going
to win.
Well, listeners, who do you think is going to win?
Who is the best soccer team out there?
There are really good soccer teams, although some countries aren't really known for their
soccer, like Russia.
You don't really hear too much soccer from Russia.
Or from China is for that.
I wonder how popular it is in these countries.
So let us know.
Tell us how popular soccer is in your country or what team you are a fan of.
I know many people like the European Cups and they're fans of Barcelona or the Italian
teams.
Well, come to the website.
My name is Marco and I'm joined here by the lovely...
And today we're going to be bringing you another great lesson, one of the lessons that you
requested.
Actually, Maxim, Maxim S requested this one.
I think he's really into research and investigation.
So we're bringing you a great lesson about this topic.
So I'm really excited to hear this dialogue all about research.
So why don't we start listening to two university professors discussing an important question.
We've been over this a thousand times.
The data is irrefutable.
Look, we've done extensive research, built studies and read the literature, and there
is conclusive evidence to support my theory.
Horowitz, I beg to differ.
Even in your most recent study, the investigative approach was flawed.
You know as well as I do, the collection of data was not systematic and there's a large
margin of error.
To draw a definitive conclusion based on that data would be misleading.
That is preposterous.
You are trying to single handedly solve one of the world's greatest mysteries and yet
you're oblivious to the fact that you're wrong.
I am not wrong.
The chicken came first.
No, the egg came first.
The chicken.
Egg.
The egg.
All right, so interesting.
Which came first, the chicken or the egg?
It's an age old question, isn't it?
And apparently they are not going to agree anytime soon.
All right, well, what they can agree about is this awesome language.
So why don't we take a look at it now in Language Takeaway.
Okay on Language Takeaway today we have some really great words and this first one is really
good.
Irrefutable.
Okay so if the professor says that the data is irrefutable, what does he mean by that?
He's saying that you cannot deny it.
It is really, really true.
It is really true.
There is no way this is a lie.
Irrefutable evidence for example.
Yeah, that's a great phrase.
All right, so the professor complained that Dr. Horowitz's experiment was flawed.
Flawed.
So flawed, is that an adjective, a verb or a noun?
It is an adjective here.
Now when something is flawed, there is a problem with it, right?
There's a mistake.
Okay, so it has an error.
So the professor is saying that his experiment has a flaw.
A mistake, exactly.
So flawed is the adjective of a flaw.
Now the reason that his study or his experiment was flawed is because it was not systematic.
Systematic.
So systematic, that's an interesting word.
Now I think we can recognize the word system in here, right?
So when something is systematic, it follows a process.
A certain order.
Yes, a certain system.
So that's basically what systematic means, to follow a certain order, to be more organized,
Exactly, yeah.
And what about our next word?
Preposterous.
It usually goes together, right?
Okay, so what does it mean when I say that?
It means it's absurd.
It's ridiculous.
It doesn't make sense.
I can't believe you said that.
Well, this is a really interesting phrase, but I think it's a little bit more common
when it's used by older people.
I don't think, I don't really see a young person going up to someone and say, hey, that's
preposterous.
Yeah, but it is a wonderful phrase.
Now our final phrase for takeaway, oblivious.
Oblivious.
You're oblivious to the facts.
So a person that is oblivious to something.
They don't know or they're unaware.
Okay, so they ignore maybe the facts or they don't see it.
You're oblivious to the fact that we're in a recession.
Okay, or he is completely oblivious.
You can just say it like that, right?
Yeah, he doesn't know.
Okay, so we took a look at some of the great vocabulary we found in the dialogue, but there
were also some really good phrases that I think we should look at.
Okay, and let's take a look at those in Putting It Together.
You know, Marco, one of the things I love about English is the way that words seem to
fit together, like blocks coming together.
And here we have a lot of great examples of these words that fit together really nicely.
Okay, so why don't we look at those?
And our first one now is extensive research.
Extensive research.
All right, so we know extensive means?
A lot.
So that's really good when you put it together, extensive research.
It means you have?
A lot of research.
You have really studied, you have really looked things up.
Okay, extensive research.
Another great research-related phrase here is conclusive evidence.
Conclusive evidence.
All right, now, the first word there, conclusive.
When something is conclusive, you can't argue with it.
It's the final decision.
All right, well, the professor complained that Horowitz's investigative approach was
flawed, right?
So this is our next phrase, investigative approach.
Investigative approach.
Okay, so I remember the word investigate is a verb.
But in this case, it's a?
It's an adjective.
So when something is investigative, it's obviously having to do with?
An investigation.
So the approach or the...
So when he said investigative approach.
Just the...
I mean, just simply the way you investigate the problem.
The way he investigated.
Okay, very interesting.
What about this other phrase that I saw?
Definitive conclusion.
So a definitive conclusion.
All right, well, again, I think we know the word conclusion, right?
So it's a final judgment or decision.
When something is definitive, you can't argue with it or change it.
Okay, so the conclusion or the final result is final, like there is no way of arguing
Well, that's great language.
So why don't we listen to it one more time in the dialogue?
You are trying to single-handedly solve one of the world's greatest mysteries, and yet
So, an interesting question.
What do you think?
What came first, the chicken or the egg?
Well, you ask me, it was the egg.
It was the egg?
What about why did the chicken cross the road?
To get to the other side.
Do you think that's really the reason?
Well, there's a million different reasons, but this is great.
I'm glad you brought that up because this is like the classic English joke.
The classic English joke, right?
Why did the chicken cross the road?
And the answer is always...
Well, there are a million answers.
So do you guys know any chicken jokes?
Why don't you come to our website, EnglishPod.com, and on the comment section, why don't you
leave us your thoughts on what came first, the chicken or the egg, and why do you think
the chicken crossed the road?
Well, we really look forward to hearing your ideas, and Marco and I will be around to answer
your questions.
So I think we're out of time for today, but thanks for listening, and...
Hello English learners, welcome back. We are here at EnglishPod. My name is Marco.
And today we're going to be bringing you a lesson about eggs.
That's right. And who knew there was so much to talk about when we're talking eggs.
Right. Well, we always have eggs for breakfast and there are many ways of preparing them,
so we're going to learn what the different ways are.
Yes, and we'll learn some of the language that goes along with eggs.
Okay. So we have three words that we want to take a look at before we listen to our
dialogue. So let's look at these in Vocabulary Preview.
Our preview word for this lesson is picky.
Picky.
So picky is an interesting adjective.
Okay. So if a person is picky, what does that mean?
They're very hard to please.
Okay. So if your boss is picky and you give him a report and maybe it has, I don't know,
a couple of mistakes or something.
Yeah, he'll say, do it again. Change this, this and this.
So if you are picky, you want everything to be perfect.
And if there's one small thing that's not, you won't be happy.
Okay. So picky, interesting word. Now our next word, yolk.
Yolk.
So this word is actually not in the dialogue.
It's not in the dialogue, but it's important that you know, right?
Okay. So if you have an egg, the yellow part is called the yolk.
Okay. And what about the other part?
The white.
Or also called the egg white, right?
Yes. Egg white.
Okay. So pretty simple. Yolk and egg white.
Let's listen to our dialogue. We are going to be listening to a couple who are having
breakfast.
Wow. You're up early today. What's for breakfast?
Well, I felt like baking, so I made some muffins.
Smells good. I'll make some coffee. Do you want me to make you some eggs?
I'll take mine sunny side up.
I don't know how you can eat your eggs like that. Ever since I was small, I've had eggs
and soldiers.
You know, my dad had scrambled eggs every morning for 20 years. It drove my mom crazy.
You know what really drives me crazy? When I ask for soft boiled eggs and they overcook
them so they come out hard boiled. How can you dip your toast into a hard boiled egg?
You're so picky sometimes.
Here you go, honey. Fried eggs.
Damn it. I said sunny side up. How many times do I have to tell you?
So she is definitely very picky and has a very bad temper.
I know. I can't believe anyone would get so angry over their breakfast. But I guess it
is the most important meal of the day.
Exactly. So we heard a couple of different ways of describing how you prepare eggs, so
let's take a look at that in Language Takeaway.
Okay, so our first preparation method, my favorite, sunny side up.
Okay, sunny side up.
Sunny side up.
Now, this is interesting. Sunny, like the sun, right?
So when you fry an egg, right, and the yolk looks like a little sun, right?
So why is it called sunny side up?
I think because of what you just said. It looks like the sun.
But you don't cook the yolk, right?
Yeah, the yolk is still yellow. It's still a little bit liquid. It's a little bit soft.
Okay, because the opposite would be a fried egg.
And that's our second word.
Fried egg.
So this, you put the egg in the pan and you cook it all the way through.
All the way through. So the yolk is not liquid anymore. It becomes hardened.
A fried egg.
Let's take a look at our next set of eggs.
A soft boiled egg.
Soft boiled.
Okay, so to boil, you put the egg?
In water.
In boiling water.
Yes, and make it cook.
And make it cook. So how long would you usually put it in for to be soft boiled?
Three minutes, four minutes.
Three minutes, okay. So you only cook part of the egg, right?
The yolk, the yellow part, stays a little bit wet, a little bit liquid.
Okay. So again, the opposite would be?
A hard boiled egg.
Hard boiled egg.
Hard boiled.
So hard boiled is when you cook the entire egg again.
Yes, so then it's hard like a ball.
The entire egg. So with this soft boiled and hard boiled eggs, this takes us to our next
form, eggs and soldiers.
Eggs and soldiers.
Now this is really interesting. I didn't really know about this before. It kind of sounds
like you're having eggs with a group of soldiers from the army.
Well, this is a very British way of eating eggs. So you have your soft boiled egg in
a cup and you have a piece of toast. But the toast is cut into long pieces.
And then you take those pieces and you dip them into the egg yolk. It's delicious.
Yeah. Typical English way of eating eggs.
Okay. So eggs and soldiers. Interesting. And this takes us to our last form of egg preparation
and probably the most popular.
Yes. Scrambled eggs.
Scrambled eggs.
Take eggs, put them in a pan and then you just move them all over the place.
Mix them all up.
So the yolk and the white are mixed together.
All right. So we've looked at a lot of egg preparation and now we can listen to our dialogue
for the second time and then we'll come back and look at some phrases.
Well, I felt like baking so I made some muffins.
Sure. I'll take mine sunny side up.
Ew. I don't know how you can eat your eggs like that. Ever since I was small, I've had
eggs and soldiers.
You know what really drives me crazy? When I asked for soft boiled eggs and they overcook
Interesting that the man in this dialogue is the one doing the baking.
Yeah. Well, that's modern days. I don't know. Men are learning how to cook and yeah.
House husband.
House husband. Yeah. More popular these days.
All right. Well, since this house husband felt like baking, I think we should look at
this and one other phrase in Fluency Builder.
Okay. So great phrase. He said, I felt like baking.
I felt like baking.
I felt like baking. So let's take a look at this. He feels like or he felt like in the
past. What does that mean when you feel like?
You want to do it. You have the desire to do it.
Okay. And then to bake. And now this verb is in the gerund form.
That's right. The ing form.
And that's the rule, right? I feel like playing soccer.
Right. I feel like eating lunch.
I felt like going to the movies. That's the way you would say this. You have the desire.
You feel like doing something.
Okay. Very good. And now let's take a look at this second phrase. Drives me crazy.
Drives me crazy.
All right. This is a very, very descriptive phrase. And I think if we listen to some examples,
it will help us understand the meaning.
Example one. This music is driving me crazy. Turn it down.
Example two. Don't leave garbage in my car. It drives me crazy.
Example three. Your mom is driving me crazy. She keeps calling me.
All right. So if something drives you crazy.
It makes you feel very angry or annoyed.
Irritated.
Yeah. Frustrated.
Okay. But it can also be positive, right? Like that girl drives me crazy.
As in you really, really, really like her.
I don't know. It sounds a little bit inappropriate to me.
I think it's okay. It drives me crazy. Like she's got me thinking and she's got me in
the clouds or something like that.
All right. Well, maybe there's something about you that I don't need to know. So I'll just
let you keep that thought to yourself.
All right. Well, I'm just saying we could use it in a positive form as well.
Okay. You're just saying.
I'm just saying. All right. So drives me crazy. Really great phrase. And you can use it in
all of these different situations like we heard. So let's listen to our dialogue for
the last time and then we'll come back and talk a little bit more.
You're so picky sometimes. Here you go, honey. Fried eggs.
Well, I think there are some people who really, really love eating eggs for breakfast and
some people who just can't stand it.
Yeah. I don't know who though. I mean, who doesn't like eggs in the morning?
I know. I'm a big fan.
Right? Eggs, bacon, toast. Good stuff.
Traditional American type breakfast.
Now you were telling me that you have some traditions when you eat eggs.
I know. I think, I'm not sure if this is just in my family, but I think actually it might
be common with other people as well. When you eat a soft boiled or hard boiled egg,
you have to eat all of the egg outside of the shell and then you have to break the bottom
of the shell after you finished.
So that the fairies who live in your egg cup can come out.
So it's kind of like a superstition.
Yeah, I guess it is.
Yeah. So I don't know. You guys, do you have any egg traditions or any other crazy food
stories like that?
Well, for example, I was telling you that when I prepare scrambled eggs, sometimes I
like to take some rice, some rice that has already been cooked, put it in the pan and
then take some eggs, two eggs, put it on top of the rice and scramble the rice with the
eggs.
Okay. For breakfast?
Yeah, it could be for breakfast.
Yeah. A little bit. Not like a huge plate of rice or maybe at night you don't have anything
to eat.
Scrambled eggs with rice. It's a poor man's food.
All right. Well, it's also a quick man's food.
Yeah, exactly. So let us know if you guys have any egg preparations or any special egg
recipes or traditions that you practice.
Visit our website at EnglishPod.com where you can leave all of your comments and questions.
Exactly. And as always, we are there to answer them and solve any problems.
Well, we're out of time for today, but until next time, bye.
Hello everyone, welcome back to EnglishPod. My name is Marco. And I'm Erika. And today
we're bringing you a very, I would say, embarrassing lesson for us men. Right, embarrassing for
men but I think it's okay for women. That's right, we're going to be talking about buying
underwear, specifically women's underwear. Right, so obviously not the favorite thing
for men to do. Well, apart from being a little bit uncomfortable, it's also boring. Yeah,
it involves shopping, right? It involves shopping, so we're not really big on that. Alright,
but well, even though it might be a little bit of an uncomfortable topic, there is some
great language in here, isn't there? Yeah, there's some really good words and of course
the different types of underwear that we're going to be looking at. But we also have some
words that we're going to take a look at before we get into our dialogue, so let's start with
Vocabulary preview. Well, we're going to look at two words that will appear in our dialogue.
And the first one is lingerie. Okay, so lingerie, this is a nice fancy word, basically for underwear,
right? Right, for women's underwear. So lingerie, but it's very nice, very... Like pretty, sexy.
Sexy underwear, yeah. Now, the spelling of this word is interesting, isn't it? Yeah,
it's spelled L-I-N-G-E-R-I-E. Lingerie. Yes, don't you love English spellings? So women's
nice pretty sexy underwear. That's right. And our second word, awkward. Awkward. Awkward.
So this is a feeling that men have, especially when they're buying women's underwear. Well,
yeah, you feel a little bit uncomfortable or it's a strange situation. Or weird or out
of place. It's awkward. Yes. All right, so we're going to be hearing both of these two
words in the dialogue. Now, Marco, where are we here? We're going to be at a department
store at the section where they have women's lingerie and we have a guy buying underwear
for his girlfriend. All right, well, let's find out what happens.
This sucks. I hate buying lingerie. Okay, just find something and get out of here. All right,
these are fine. Oh, no, don't come over here. Don't come over here. You look a little lost.
Can I help you? I'm just having a look around. It's my girlfriend's birthday tomorrow. I'm
trying to find her something. Well, you can't give her granny panties. Have you thought
about getting her some sleepwear? We've got these lovely silky nighties or how about some
nice panties and a bra set? Look, here's a nice satin push up bra and you can choose
a few different styles of undies to go with it. Sure, that's fine. This is so awkward.
What else do I pick? What size is she? Well, do you want a thong? Some bikini briefs? Maybe
this nice pair of lacy boy shorts. Just pick something and get the hell out of here. I'll
go with these two. This is mortifying. I just want to get this over with and she better
thank me for this. Here you are, sir. I'm sure she'll enjoy them. Finally. I'm sorry,
sir. I'm going to have to take a look inside your bag. Oh, the poor guy. I totally feel
bad for him. Yeah, he was really nervous and of course it was very uncomfortable for him.
I know and then the security guard shows up. Exactly. But we had the opportunity to take
a look at some really great words and phrases. So let's start off with our first one in language
takeaway. Language takeaway. All right, well we're going to look at words here that mostly
have to do with underwear, describing underwear. Right. And the first one is granny panties.
Granny panties. Granny panties. This isn't like a real, real word, right? It's not something
you'll find in a dictionary. No, it's a slang word and we use it to describe really big,
ugly underwear like your grandmother would wear. All right, so they're not like the sexy
little underwear. It's more like long and it's not very appealing. Just picture what
your grandmother would wear. No. All right, so granny panties. So obviously this guy doesn't
want to be buying any of those, but the saleswoman suggests that he try some sleepwear. Sleepwear.
Sleepwear. Okay, so sleepwear. Obviously, clothes you wear when you're sleeping. Now,
this is really interesting because men aren't really that complicated when it comes to sleeping.
Just throw on a t-shirt and that's it. Well, obviously for women, there are more options
and more different things you can choose from. Okay. So it's a whole separate category for
women. I know. Even when you're sleeping, you must wear something nice. Yes. One type
of sleepwear is silky nighties. Nighties. Nighties. N-I-G-H-T-I-E-S. Okay, so a nightie.
It's basically a dress that you wear when you sleep. Okay. Now, the pronunciation is
interesting because the first five letters are night. Right. Right, but you don't say
night. You don't say nighty. You say nighty. Yeah, you make the T a D. Nighty. Now, she
offered him some silky nighties. Right. So, silky. Obviously, we know silk is a soft,
shiny fabric, right? Right. So when something is silky, it's either made from silk or it's
soft and shiny. Okay, so some silky nighties. Very soft, shiny nighties. Exactly. Okay.
What about our next word? Well, the sales girl offers different styles of undies. Undies.
Undies. Undies. So, undies is an interesting word. It's basically short for underwear.
Underwear. Okay. So, you can just call underwear undies. Yes, but I think you mostly use this
when you're talking about women's underwear. Oh, really? I mean, I don't know if I would
say undies when I'm talking about men's underwear. No, I don't think so. Maybe children's underwear.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. For children. For children, right? Yep. Okay. All right, so we saw some
of the different types of clothing, but now let's take a look at this interesting adjective.
Mortifying. Mortifying. This is mortifying. Mortifying. Okay, so when something is mortifying.
Well, I think we've got some examples to show you what that is like. Example one. And then
I fell in front of everyone. It was mortifying. Example two. I was completely mortified when
I realized what I had done. Example three. It must have been mortifying for her when
she realized that her underwear was showing. So, basically, it's very embarrassing. Super
embarrassing. You want to die almost. Yep. Okay. Which is interesting. I mean, mort.
Right from death, right? Yeah, French. Yeah, interesting. All right. Well, etymology here
at EnglishPod. All right, so some interesting... Okay, so we saw the different types of underwear.
We saw this really great word for when you're really embarrassed. So, now let's take a look
at some of the phrases that you would use when you're really embarrassed in Fluency
Builder. Fluency Builder. All right, well, we have two phrases to look at here. The first
one. Get the hell out of here. Get the hell out of here. Get the hell out of here. Okay,
so if I say, I want to get the hell out of here. You want to leave this place really
quickly. Really quickly. Yes. I want to leave. Right now. Now, when you're using this phrase
or this sentence, get the hell out of here. Is it really polite? No, of course not. It's
impolite. Okay, so it's really negative. Very negative and informal, right? Yeah. So, you
would use this maybe with your friends or like in this case, think it to yourself. Yes,
but it's not a good idea to use with your boss or your mother. Right. Yeah. Okay. I
guess sometimes depending on the tone you use, how you say it, you can sound really
angry, right? Definitely. Right. Okay. All right. Well, let's listen to some examples.
Example one. This place is scary. Let's get the hell out of here. Example two. What are
you doing in my house? Get the hell out of here. Example three. We're at a friend's party
and all of a sudden her parents arrived. We got the hell out of there as quickly as possible.
All right. So, get the hell out of here. Get the hell out of here. Now, let's take a look
at our last phrase for a fluency builder. Get this over with. Get this over with. I
want to get this over with. So, you want to finish it really quickly. But you want to
finish it because you're not really enjoying it, right? Exactly. This is something that
you use when the situation is negative. Is negative. Okay. Yeah. Okay. So, I just want
to get this over with. Yeah. I want to get this test over with. I want to get this day
over with. I want to get this... Maybe if you're on a bad date, I want to get this date
over with. Yes, exactly. All right. Well, interesting phrases and I think it would help
us to hear them once more in context in the dialogue.
This sucks. I hate buying lingerie. Okay, just find something and get out of here. All
right, these are fine. Oh, no. Don't come over here. Don't come over here. You look
a little lost. Can I help you? I'm just having a look around. It's my girlfriend's birthday
tomorrow. I'm trying to find her something. Well, you can't give her granny panties. Have
you thought about getting her some sleepwear? We've got these lovely silky nighties or how
about some nice panties in a bra set? Look, here's a nice satin push-up bra and you can
choose a few different styles of undies to go with it. Sure, that's fine. This is so
awkward. What ones do I pick? What size is she? Well, do you want a thong? Some bikini
briefs? Maybe this nice pair of lacy boy shorts? Just pick something and get the hell out of
here. I'll go with these two. This is mortifying. I just want to get this over with and she
better thank me for this. Here you are, sir. I'm sure she'll enjoy them. Finally. I'm sorry,
sir. I'm going to have to take a look inside your bag.
All right. So I guess this situation is very common. Men either having to shop for this
type of article for their girlfriend or wife because it's their birthday or sometimes we
get dragged into a store to buy this. So you're shopping with your girlfriend and she's going
to make you go look at underwear with her. Yeah. I usually don't do that though. I'll
just go to the next section and just look around. Look at tools. Look at TVs and Play
Stations. But you know what? I have seen some men who go shopping with their girlfriends
or wives and actually enjoy buying underwear. See, that's the thing. I think it makes sense,
but I don't know how comfortable you would actually be. I don't know why. I guess just
how it indicates sexuality and all this stuff. I could do it for maybe five or ten minutes,
give my professional advice and then I'm out of there. All right. Well, maybe those guys
who look like they're enjoying themselves are just really talking in their heads, telling
themselves how much they hate this. Exactly. Maybe they're just pretending or listening
to their iPod. Well, tell us, well, guys, I know we've got a lot of male listeners.
Tell us what you think. Are you embarrassed by women's underwear? Right. Or women, why
aren't you embarrassed when you buy men's underwear for your boyfriend or husband? I
think there's a lot to talk about here. So, come to our website at EnglishPod.com. Right.
Leave your questions and comments and of course, tell us what you think about this topic. Well,
thanks for downloading this lesson and until next time, goodbye.
Hello English learners, welcome back. We are here at EnglishPod. I am joined with Erica.
And my partner in crime, Marco.
Alright, so today we're going to be talking about a really great topic, one of my favorites.
Beer.
Beer. So beer is a very popular drink, especially in bars and when you go out.
Yes, it's very common with students, I think.
Yes, and it's also not very strong like a vodka or whiskey.
Okay, so we are going to be at a bar today and we're going to be looking at some of this vocabulary that you would find.
Yes, I mean you've got to know this beer vocabulary.
Okay, so let's listen to our dialogue for the first time and then we'll come back and look at these words.
Hey man, what do you have on tap?
Heineken and Budweiser. We have a two for one happy hour special.
Cool, give me a pint of Heineken and half a pint of Bud.
Okay. Pint of Heineken, half pint of Bud for table six. What about some appetizers?
Sure, let's have some nachos and mozzarella sticks.
Okay, that'll be 80 bucks.
Well, it's pretty expensive for two beers and some food.
Yes, well, it happens sometimes you go to these very exclusive bars and they charge you like if it was gold.
I mean, that's crazy.
Well, let's take a look at some of these great words that we saw in Language Takeaway.
Our first word is on tap.
On tap.
So he asked, what do you have on tap? Now, this is a strange sentence. What exactly does it mean?
Okay, well, he's asking about what beers the bar has.
But not in a bottle or not in a can, right?
Right. So, you know, in a bar, there's often this machine, right?
That will pour a very fresh beer, right, directly into the glass.
Into the glass. Yeah, this is a very popular thing because like you say, it's fresh beer.
Yeah, it tastes better.
Tastes better.
Okay, so what do you have on tap?
What do you have on tap?
All right, let's take a look at our second word. Happy hour.
Now, this is very common and popular with bars.
What is it when they have a happy hour?
Okay, a happy hour is a period of time where the drinks are very cheap.
Okay, so happy hour could be from 5 p.m. till 10 p.m., 50% off.
If the drink is $4, then it is now $2 in happy hour.
Okay, perfect. And this brings us to our third word, a special.
A special.
So, this is a noun and what does it mean when a restaurant or a bar has a special?
It's like they're having a sale.
A sale.
So, things are cheaper.
So, it could be, for example, a Monday night special.
Or like in the dialogue, a happy hour special.
Okay, so it is a promotion.
All right, very good.
And now, they ordered a pint of Heineken and half a pint of Budweiser.
Pint.
This is a very, very special beer word.
So, a pint is the size of your glass.
Okay, so we understand how much a pint is.
What would be the equivalent in liters?
A pint is 0.4 liters.
Okay, so almost half a liter is one pint.
Okay, it is very common when you go into a bar, you can order a pint of beer.
Yes, exactly. In English, we don't say, I'll have half a liter of beer.
Right, right. So, let's take a look at our next word on Language Takeaway.
Appetizers.
Okay, so what is an appetizer?
Well, it is food you eat before your dinner or before your lunch.
Okay, so it's usually maybe like a salad.
Or a soup or something small that you can eat right before your big meal.
Okay, so some common appetizers at a bar and we saw them in our dialogue.
Nachos and mozzarella sticks.
Nachos.
So, nachos are little chips, right?
Yeah, corn chips and it has cheese and maybe some tomatoes and maybe some beans.
Okay, so those are nachos. They are very common in the United States.
Yes, yeah.
And what about mozzarella sticks?
Mozzarella sticks, a travesty on the world and humanity and everyone's arteries.
Well, mozzarella is a cheese, right?
Mozzarella cheese and this cheese is, what is it, how is it prepared?
You put it in some bread crumbs and then you fry it in oil. You deep fry it.
And you don't like this?
No, this is terrible.
Why? They are so good.
Because then you can dip it in a little sauce and it's delicious.
Marco, there are so many reasons why this is wrong.
All right, well, mozzarella sticks, a very popular bar food.
All right, well, why don't we listen to the dialogue again and we'll be able to hear these words in context at a slower speed.
Hey, man, what do you have on tap?
Cool. Give me a pint of Heineken and half a pint of Bud.
Okay. Pint of Heineken, half pint of Bud for table six.
What about some appetizers?
Sure. Let's have some nachos and mozzarella sticks.
Okay. That'll be 80 bucks.
Okay, so we saw some really good vocabulary words there and now let's take a look at putting it together.
Well, in this lesson, we are going to look at one phrase that sometimes causes problems.
So let's listen to this phrase that we're talking about.
Okay, so this phrase, what about?
Yeah, I often hear people use it to ask a question.
So a common mistake is asking, what about your weekend?
What about your new job?
Now, this is incorrect, right?
You cannot use the phrase, what about, to ask a question about information.
So you, it cannot ask for information.
Okay, because in our dialogue, the bartender said, and what about some appetizers?
Right, because he is making a suggestion.
Right, so he's saying, well, why don't you have some food?
Yes, the phrase, what about, can be used to make a suggestion.
Okay, so I can say, what about going to the movies?
You know what, let's hear a few more examples of this, because I think it's really useful.
What about these dirty clothes?
You said you would wash them days ago.
What about going to the mall instead?
I'm tired of going to the movies.
What about a pizza instead of noodles?
Alright, so really good examples, and the same thing we can apply to how about.
Exactly, so again, how about cannot ask for information.
So you can't say, how about your boss?
Alright, perfect.
So let's listen to this dialogue one last time, and then we'll come back and talk a little bit more about bars and beers.
Heineken and Budweiser.
We have a two for one happy hour special.
Pint of Heineken, half pint of Bud for table six.
You want some appetizers?
Well Marco, I know you're a big fan of beer, and actually I think everyone here at Praxis is a big beer drinker.
And this is the perfect opportunity to tell everyone about the world renowned beer shake.
Alright, so everyone that listens to this recipe is a non-believer.
They say that it is not possible for it to taste good.
But here's the recipe.
You take a liter of beer, or maybe half a liter.
So a pint.
A pint or a pint and a half.
And you put it in the blender.
Now you take two eggs.
Okay, not cooked, not boiled, anything.
You take two eggs and put them in the blender.
It could be one or two.
And then you take about half a cup of sugar, put it in the blender.
And you mix all that together and you get this really good foamy delicious beer shake.
So a beer milkshake.
Well, it has no milk.
But it's actually really good.
I've prepared it for some people who are like, no, that's not possible, it can't taste good.
And in the end, they're like, wow, this is actually pretty good.
So did you invent this recipe?
It's actually really common in Ecuador, in Peru.
I've even seen it in Chile, usually with a dark beer.
So like a Guinness or?
It could be a Guinness.
It's that a dark beer is a little bit sweeter, so you wouldn't add so much sugar.
But if you have another beer like a lager or a stout, you could still do it,
but just add a little bit more sugar because that beer is a little bit more bitter.
Well, I am not going to try this recipe, but maybe you guys are.
You should.
Try it out and let me know how it works.
Yeah, you can tell us all about it on our website, englishpod.com.
Yeah, and we're definitely there to answer all your questions,
and I'll be posting the recipe as well on the website.
Well, we're out of time for today, but thanks for listening.
And today we're bringing you a great office lesson.
That's right, but actually I hope this situation never happens to any of our listeners.
Today we are firing somebody.
Yikes.
It is a little bit complicated, but maybe you're an HR manager, maybe you are a supervisor,
and you'll have to do this one day.
So got to learn how, right?
Let's get started then as we listen to Isabel and Anthony.
Hi Isabel.
You wanted to see me?
Yes, Anthony.
Come on in and have a seat.
Is everything okay?
You seem a bit preoccupied.
Well, Anthony, this is not going to be an easy conversation.
The company has made some decisions which will have a direct impact on your employment.
I don't want to beat around the bush, so I'm just going to come out with it.
We're going to have to let you go.
I mean, just like that?
I'm fired?
I'm sorry, but to be honest, you're a terrible employee.
I resent that.
Anthony, you were caught making international calls from the office phone.
You called in sick eight times this month, and you smell like alcohol.
He did sound a little bit like he had too much to drink.
He had that kind of-
Slur.
That slow way of talking that made him seem a little bit drunk.
Well, that's definitely something you don't want to do is show up to work with alcohol
in your breath.
There's a lot of great language in this dialogue, so why don't we take a look at it now in Language
Well, I want to look at three words here.
Now, the first one, Anthony said that Isabel was preoccupied.
Preoccupied.
So, if somebody is preoccupied-
They're not focused.
Maybe they're a little bit worried.
Yeah, they're thinking of something else.
Why don't we take a listen to a few examples of how this word is used?
James is really preoccupied.
I think he's having some family problems.
Oh, were you talking to me, honey?
I'm just really preoccupied with work.
So, very clear now.
Direct impact.
A direct impact.
So, again, Isabel told Anthony that the decision will have a direct impact on his career.
It will have a noticeable or impact or effect on his career.
So, a direct impact.
Well, Anthony said, I resent that.
Resent.
Now, this is spelled exactly like resent, like with an S, right?
R-E-S-E-N-T.
But you pronounce it like a Z.
Resent that.
So, what does it mean if you say, I resent that?
It means, I find that insulting.
I find that to be not true.
Well, how do you use this word?
Well, if somebody tells you, you're lazy.
Then you might say, hey, I resent that.
I do a lot of work.
I'm not lazy.
So, it's always something that you use after someone insults you.
Or says something that you find to be not true.
And I guess with this, it's time for us to listen to this dialogue again, and then we'll
come back and look at some great phrases.
Hi, Isabel.
Yeah, well, there's some wonderful language in here that you can use when you have to
have a difficult conversation with somebody.
So, let's take a look at these phrases in Fluency Builder.
We have three phrases here, and the first one is to beat around the bush.
Beat around the bush.
So, this is an idiomatic phrase.
So, before we explain it, let's listen to somebody beating around the bush.
The one thing that I want to tell you, it's so important that I don't like.
I always, sometimes when, all right, here's the deal.
This is it.
It's not me.
It's not this.
It's not that.
It's not you.
It's everyone.
It's everything.
Do you understand what I'm saying?
So, as you can tell, the person has something to say, but they're taking a long time to
say it.
You're kind of looking for the right or maybe more polite words to say something.
So, that is to beat around the bush.
Now, the opposite of to beat around the bush is to come out with it.
Come out with it.
So, maybe you're talking to your friend and he's beating around the bush, so you can just
say, hey, come out with it.
Tell me.
Just what is it?
Be direct.
When Isabel finally came out with it, she told Anthony that we're going to have to
let you go.
Let you go.
So, this is actually a nicer way of saying you're fired.
It's a little bit more polite, isn't it?
It's, we're going to have to let you go or...
Oh, I was let go from my company.
So, the synonym for to be fired.
So, let's listen to Anthony getting fired one more time and then we'll come back and
talk a little bit more about this difficult situation.
You called in sick eight times this month and you smell like alcohol.
So, Erica, have you ever fired anyone?
I have fired a lot of people.
Well, you know, there are some people who really do silly things like come to work drunk.
And if you do that, you're obviously going to get fired.
But in the United States, actually, there is an interesting way of firing people.
They get a pink slip.
But I guess this is just a little bit different than getting fired.
You get a pink slip when you get laid off.
I mean, if you come to work drunk, you get fired immediately, right?
But when you get a pink slip, so it's basically a little pink paper that tells you that you
have been laid off.
And so when you hear somebody say we sent out.
So when you hear somebody talk about pink slips, like we send like our company sent
out 500 pink slips, you know, that means that 500 people got laid off or I got a pink slip
That means you got laid off.
That's actually interesting because I don't know any other country that actually has this
of special color, special color for firing people.
How about in your country?
Is there a special color for pink slips?
If you guys have any stories as well, maybe about being fired or maybe you've had to fire
somebody.
Come to our website and tell us about it.
There you can leave your questions and comments.
Erika and I are always there trying to answer your questions and also our great community
is there.
They will also help.
Okay, guys.
Well, we're out of time for today.
But until next time.
And today we're at a wedding ceremony.
Alright, nice!
Another nice wedding.
But of course, it wouldn't be EnglishPod unless we have something unexpected happening at
this wedding.
Okay, so we're going to be talking about hands.
But Marco, what is there to say about a hand?
Well, as you may or may not know, each finger has a name on your hand.
So we're going to learn what those names are in English.
And also, we're going to learn about some common phrases that you might hear in an English
wedding.
Because I think, exactly because usually it's old English.
Maybe English that's not used anymore.
Well, I'm excited to find out what this unexpected event is.
The rings, please.
May this ring be blessed so he who gives it and she who wears it may abide in peace and
continue in love until life's end.
For this ring I be wed, wear it as a symbol of our love and commitment.
Honey, that's my pinky.
That ring goes on the ring finger.
This one?
That's my index finger.
Oh, right.
This one, right?
That's the thumb make.
Okay, I got it.
This is the ring finger.
That's my middle finger, Nick.
This is my ring finger.
Alright, embarrassing moments for the groom.
Confusing the fingers in front of all his friends and family.
Not good.
We mentioned before that we're going to learn the names of each finger in your hand, so
let's get started.
Let's take a look at these in Language Takeaway.
Alright, well, why don't we start with the smallest finger on your hand?
The smallest finger on your hand.
That's called the pinky.
Sometimes people call it the little finger, right?
So the pinky.
And the next finger is the one the groom couldn't find.
Okay, the ring finger.
The ring finger.
So this is, of course, like the name says, where the wedding ring is usually placed.
On this finger.
Now, the next one is a controversial finger.
That must be the middle finger.
Okay, easy.
Middle finger.
So why is it controversial?
Well, you know, if you put your middle finger up and you put all...
Like you're doing right now to me.
I'm sorry, Marco.
I'll do it this way.
And all other fingers down, you are making a very rude gesture, a rude sign.
So what would you call that?
I would call that giving the middle finger.
Giving the middle finger.
Or, I've also heard the phrase, flip someone off.
Yes, or also flip the bird.
Flip the bird, exactly.
Or give him the bird.
So these are all phrases that you can use when you are showing only your middle finger
to somebody.
It's not very polite.
No, don't do it.
Don't do it.
Unless somebody deserves it, I guess.
We won't talk about that.
But what we will talk about is the next finger.
The index finger.
Index finger.
So this is the finger you use to point.
Any idea why they call it the index finger?
Because when you're looking through the index of a book, you always use this finger.
I think you also use this finger to pass pages on a book, right?
Don't believe anything I just told you.
Well, we're not sure.
Maybe you guys know the real answer to this.
And our last finger, the most important one.
The thumb.
Thumb.
T-H-U-M-B.
So that's the short but fat finger.
The very movable one.
The movable one.
The one that you use to play PlayStation.
Video games.
So the pronunciation here, do you say the B at the end of this word?
I actually only pronounce the M. The thumb.
You wouldn't say the thumb.
So now that we're clear on all five fingers, let's listen to our dialogue again and then
we'll come back and talk about these difficult phrases that the priest used.
With this ring I, thee wed, wear it as a symbol of our love and commitment.
The ring goes on the ring finger.
That's the thumb, Nick.
I got it.
Well, this is really common wedding speak, isn't it?
It's really common.
That's what usually the priest or the person who is marrying somebody would say.
Well, why don't we look at some of these phrases now because it's really interesting to talk
about their meaning.
So the first one, may this ring be blessed.
May this ring be blessed.
So what does it mean when you bless something or someone?
Well, usually the religious leader does this, right?
And he's giving good wishes to that thing.
Could be for an object or to a person, right?
And so these good wishes usually come from God.
So what about our next phrase?
Abide in peace.
So this verb, abide.
It means to live.
To live.
To be.
To be in peace.
But it's very fancy and I don't know if you use it anymore.
I mean, you would never use this word in conversation or even very rarely in writing.
It's quite old.
I would agree.
So abide in peace.
What about our next phrase?
I like this and it's the common phrase you'll hear in all movies and in all marriages.
With this ring, I thee wed.
We've got two words in here that are also older English words.
So thee.
Thee.
T-H-E-E.
So this is a middle English term for you.
So can I say, I love thee?
You could.
That would be very romantic.
But also inappropriate for the office.
But it's very old English.
I guess if you're reading Shakespeare, you would definitely come upon this, right?
And what about wed?
This is also an old word for, an old verb for the action of marrying someone.
So I can say, we will be wed next year.
But don't say that now because you'll sound quite silly.
It's too old-fashioned.
Yeah, I guess so.
But it's good to know, especially if you guys are reading something a little bit more classical.
Or you plan to get married to an English person.
And our last phrase.
Wear it as a symbol of our love and commitment.
So now he's referring to the rings, right?
Wear the ring as a symbol.
A sign.
A representation.
Of love and commitment.
So why would you wear a ring as a symbol of something?
Well obviously, you know, love, you can't see it, you can't touch it.
So you need something to show you that it's there.
So you need a sign of that love.
Something that you can see.
So that's what the ring represents.
But how about this word, commitment?
A commitment is a strong promise.
So you promise to love that person, to take care of them, etc.
So now we are a little bit more familiar with some of the language you hear in a wedding
ceremony.
And we also know all of the names of the fingers.
So why don't we listen to the dialogue one more time to hear these all in context.
The rings please.
And may this ring I be wed wear it as a symbol of our love and commitment.
All right, so now it's perfectly clear and a romantic dialogue in the end.
Yeah, very romantic.
Although a little bit embarrassing.
So what about wedding rings?
Now we have different types of rings, right?
We have the wedding ring, the one that we just heard, but we also have an engagement
ring.
In most English speaking countries, the woman is very, very lucky because she gets two rings.
So when the man asks her to marry him, he gives her a diamond.
A diamond ring.
That is usually, that's the engagement ring.
And it's really, really important that he does this.
And it's also really important that he spends a lot of money on the diamond.
Yeah, I know about this.
Weddings are forever, right?
And the tradition is you must spend at least one month's salary.
Is that it?
So the girl gets a diamond engagement ring, and then on wedding day, she gets the wedding
And usually, will she wear both of them?
Yeah, she'll always wear both of them.
So the engagement ring goes closest to you, and then the wedding ring on top.
And the engagement ring, it represents?
The commitment to marry her.
No, wait, the commitment from the man to marry her.
Okay, so it's a symbol that they will get married.
Yes, it's a symbol of the promise.
Now what happens if they break up and they don't get married?
Does he get the ring back?
Okay, here's the rule.
If he was a jerk, no.
But if it was sort of like a happy breakup, then okay.
I guess it's a big risk, right?
That's it for today, guys.
Let us know if you guys have any interesting wedding stories.
I know that sometimes weddings can be embarrassing, people, I don't know, objecting, maybe I've
seen the groom faint.
Or even fall in a pool.
Fall in a pool.
So if you have any stories, please share them with us.
Come to EnglishPod.com.
And also if you have any questions or doubts, Erica and I are always there to answer them.
Well thanks for listening to this lesson, everyone.
Today, we're bringing you an upper intermediate lesson and something that we all do.
Right, talking to ourselves.
Talking to ourselves, right?
I think everyone does it.
You think to yourself or you talk to yourself.
And we're going to be doing that today, but we're going to be looking at some specific
Erika, why don't you tell us about that?
Well, unfortunately, we're going to be following a guy as he's in a really embarrassing situation
and we're going to hear him call himself some bad names in his mind.
So he's a little bit nervous and he thinks he is not very smart, right?
Okay, so before we start with this dialogue, there are a couple of words that we should
look at in vocabulary preview.
All right, we're going to hear both of these words in the dialogue.
And the first one is famished.
Famished.
Okay, so famished is an adjective.
That's right, meaning very, very, very hungry.
Very, very hungry.
Okay, so just very hungry, very easy.
Now, what about our next one?
Sexist.
Another adjective to describe a person, right?
Or a thing, I guess.
Like, yeah, an idea.
Okay, so a sexist person would be?
Somebody who judges people by their sex.
So like all women are stupid, for example.
Which is not true, of course.
No, of course not.
So sexist works both ways.
A woman can be sexist, a man could be sexist.
Meaning the women thinks all men are stupid.
Which is also not true.
Let's just be clear about that.
So now that we've taken a look at these two phrases, let's start with our dialogue and
we'll be back to talk about all the great words.
Miss, your salad.
Mmm.
Looks good.
I'm positively famished.
And for you, sir.
Enjoy.
I can't believe she's on a date with me.
I'm so lucky.
I must be the luckiest guy in the world.
I want to scream at the top of my lungs.
I'm the luckiest dude in the world.
Oh, shut up.
Don't be such a dumbass.
She's so hot.
Wait, I can't say that.
That's sexist.
She's making me sexist.
I'm such a tool.
Okay, get it together.
She's eating salad.
I have a salad.
Oh, crap.
Which fork do I use?
She's going to think I'm a moron.
What the hell are all these forks for?
Which one did she use?
Okay, chill.
I'm going to use this one.
Be cool.
Just take a fork.
Okay, embarrassing first date, huh?
Yeah, I mean I really do feel sorry for this guy.
Well, it happens to us.
Sometimes we are in the company of a very beautiful girl and we just get really nervous.
Alright, well, you know, psychologists call this negative self-talk.
Yeah, this sort of calling yourself names and talking negatively about yourself.
But actually you can use some of this language to talk negatively about others.
So why don't we look now at this language in Language Takeaway.
So on Language Takeaway today we have five words.
Let's start with our first one.
Dumbass.
Okay, now this isn't a very polite word I would say.
Definitely not polite.
Okay, but what is a dumbass?
Well, it's obviously a dumb, stupid idiot.
Okay, so it's a person that is not very intelligent.
And our next word is also quite similar.
Moron.
A moron.
If a person is a dumbass or a person is a moron, what's the difference?
Well, basically a moron is someone who is not smart, who is very unintelligent.
So they don't know what one plus one is.
But a dumbass is a person who does stupid things.
So maybe a dumbass like you're planning a bank robbery and the dumbass forgets to bring
the gun.
That is a dumbass.
So maybe moron is a little bit less offensive and it's actually you'll find it in the dictionary,
Whereas a dumbass I don't think you'll find it.
Yeah, it's slang.
It's slang.
Now what about this next?
It's also a negative name you can call people.
A tool.
Tool.
This is very strange because I don't know how a tool can be something negative towards
a person.
But it actually means the opposite, right?
If a person is called a tool, it means they are useless, right?
So if you ever call the tool, they're saying that you're useless.
You're good for nothing.
Well, these are three interesting words.
So why don't we hear some examples of each of these words in use?
I hate Tom.
He's such a dumbass.
Last week he borrowed my mobile phone and dropped it in the pool.
I don't like Kevin very much.
He can be a real moron at times.
It was looking for a joke, but he didn't even have a resume prepared.
He's such a tool.
Okay, so great examples and here at EnglishPod, we're bringing you real street talk.
Language as it is spoken by today's youth.
Now let's take a look at our last two words.
Well, these phrases you can use when you're trying to calm yourself down and make yourself
relax a little bit, right?
Let's take a look at the next one.
Chill.
So again, relax.
Calm down.
Relax.
And then you also need to be cool.
Now if you can tell the pattern is related to temperature, right?
Chill is cold.
Cool is similar to cold.
So again, that's what it means to relax.
To calm down your emotions.
Make your emotions not so hot.
So chill.
And you use them together like that, don't you?
Now chill also has another way of using it, right?
I'm chilling with my friends.
We're chilling here in the EnglishPod studio.
Which means we're just relaxing.
We are just having fun.
Not doing anything, right?
But you can't say chilling.
You have to drop the G. Yeah.
You have to drop.
You can't say I'm chilling.
You have to say I'm chilling.
I'm chilling.
But now let's take a look at some of the really useful phrases that we saw in this dialogue
So this guy is so happy he's on this date that he wants to scream at the top of his
lungs.
Scream at the top of my lungs.
So basically he just wants to scream.
To shout really loudly.
Really loudly.
He's so excited, right?
So for example, sometimes you're at a concert, right?
And you need to talk to your friend and you're screaming at the top of your lungs because
the other person can't hear you.
So you're lost in the woods and you need to scream at the top of your lungs so that someone
will hear you and find you.
So scream at the top of my lungs.
Our next phrase.
Get it together.
So if I tell you, Erica, you need to get it together.
Basically you're telling me to calm down, relax.
So pull your emotions together, get your ideas straight.
So it kind of gives you this idea that you got to pull, like you said, pull your emotions
together in a little box and tie them up.
So get it together.
So Marco, when would you use this phrase, get it together?
I guess when somebody is either very emotional, maybe crying or very nervous, you tell the
person, oh, get it together, relax.
Or when somebody maybe is not doing something good in their life, like making bad decisions
or not being responsible, you tell that person, you need to get it together.
I couldn't have said it better myself.
So now why don't we move on to our next phrase?
And this is really, really high frequency.
I think you would hear it all the time.
So what the hell?
What the hell?
So why would you say what the hell?
Well, obviously you're asking a question, right?
Because you got your W, you got your what.
But when you say the hell, you're putting emphasis on the what.
So you're asking a really strong question.
It's not polite.
So if I say what the hell is going on?
Really, really what's happening?
So, and we can change it a little bit.
We can replace the what with another WH like why, how, where, where or when.
So why don't we hear some examples of how this expression is used using different WH
words?
Example one, where the hell are you?
I've been waiting for hours.
Example two, how the hell did you do that?
That was amazing.
Example three, when the hell are you going to find a job?
I'm tired of paying for everything.
Example four, who the hell are you?
I don't know you.
Now our final word, also a little bit strong, but pretty high frequency.
Oh yeah.
Very high frequency.
Oh crap.
So it's a little bit strong, but less strong than maybe saying a really bad word.
But it's definitely saying like you made a mistake.
It's like a really strong, oh no.
A really strong, oh no.
But I guess not many people say, oh no.
I just lost $10 million.
You would not say that.
So it's a very strong, oh no, but it's not as strong as it could be.
There are other words out there that are stronger, but we are not going to go into them here.
But maybe you guys know, so let us know.
We can definitely keep an eye out on the comment section.
But don't write the words in the comment section.
So we saw some really great phrases, some really great words, a lot of informal language,
but it's very high frequency and you'll use that with your friends or you'll see it in
movies, TV shows.
Really common in movies and TV shows.
So let's listen to this dialogue one more time and then we'll come back and talk a little
Screaming at the top of my lungs, I'm the luckiest dude in the world!
Oh, shut up!
She's so hot!
I'm getting sexist.
She's making me sexist. Oh my god!
I'm such a tool!
She's eating salad. Oh right.
Oh crap, which fork do I use?
Damn it! She's gonna think I'm a moron.
Okay, chill. Be cool.
Eat your salad.
Um...
Mm?
Oh, sorry. What were you saying?
You're eating my salad.
Oh, yes. It's delicious.
So these slang words, they're actually very common, right?
Yeah, I think like you said, it's not likely that you'll find them in a dictionary.
Of course. And you can find them in movies, or sometimes when you're having a conversation,
a very informal conversation with a native speaker,
these words will slip out and these slang terms will come up.
Exactly. And you know what? There's a great resource out there for wonderful English slang terms,
called UrbanDictionary.com.
Exactly. If you ever see a word that maybe you can't find in the conventional dictionary,
you're probably gonna find it there.
Yeah, we'll put a link up to it on the site.
Alright. So also, if you have any questions or comments, be sure to come to our website, EnglishPod.com.
Marco and I are there to answer all your questions,
and we also got lots of resources, like links to Urban Dictionary.
Right. And also, if you have any questions on any other slang terms that you may have heard,
or how to use them, be sure to post it on the comment section.
Well guys, thanks for listening to this lesson, and until next time, goodbye!
And today we're going to be going to one of the least favorite places of many, many people.
So it must be the dentist.
That place where you have to go every six months, but...
You probably don't go.
You probably don't.
I know I don't go every six months.
So yeah, we're going to be going to the dentist and of course we're going to be looking at
a lot of great vocabulary related to teeth and all that crazy stuff dentists do.
And we'll also learn some really interesting phrases.
So Marco, let's get started with our vocabulary preview.
Okay, in vocabulary preview today we have two words.
Toothache.
Okay, so we've seen before this ending ache, right?
It means it hurts.
So again, a toothache would be?
A hurting tooth.
We can also say stomachache, headache.
Pretty much everything can...
Ache.
So our next word, x-ray.
X-ray.
X hyphen R-A-Y.
Okay, pretty easy word.
So when you go to the doctor, many times you'll get an x-ray.
It is a picture of your bones.
So that's an x-ray.
Well, we're going to hear both of these words in the dialogue.
So why don't we listen as Gary visits his dentist?
Hey, Gary, great to see you again.
So tell me what seems to be the problem.
Thanks, doc.
I've got a really bad toothache.
I can't eat anything.
And look, my face is all swollen.
I think it might be my wisdom teeth.
Well, let's have a look.
Open wide.
This doesn't look good.
Well, it looks like you have a cavity and your crown is loose.
You'll need to put in a filling before it gets any worse.
And the crown probably needs to be refitted.
I'm going to order some x-rays.
Is it going to hurt?
No, not at all.
Just lay back and relax.
Okay, spit.
Okay, that always happens.
The dentist says, no, it's not going to hurt.
But it always hurts much more than he says.
So in this dialogue, we saw some interesting words when the dentist was describing what
problems Gary had.
So why don't we look at those now in Language Takeaway.
All right, let's take a look at our first word.
So Gary said that his face was all swollen.
Swollen.
So swollen is an adjective, right Marco?
So his face is or was swollen.
It was bigger.
Yeah, his face was bigger than normal.
Often when you hurt yourself, that part of your body becomes swollen.
Swollen, right.
So you have to put some ice on it usually and then the swelling will go down.
And that's the noun, the swelling.
Right, the swelling.
And well, the verb to swell.
All right, three words for the price of one.
So let's listen to some examples of how we would use the swelling, swollen and to swell.
My nose is swollen.
It's the size of a football.
Put some ice on your foot and the swelling will go down.
I got bitten by a spider and my hand is swelling up.
All right, so Gary's face was swollen and he thought that it was his wisdom teeth.
Wisdom teeth.
Okay, so this is interesting.
Wisdom is like wise.
Yeah, knowledge.
Knowledge.
So these teeth, they're not knowledgeable, but they're called wisdom teeth.
They're the teeth that grow last in your mouth, right?
Right, they are the last teeth at the very end of your mouth.
Yes, and usually you get them when you're about 20.
And since they come out at this age, sometimes they interfere or they hurt a little bit,
so you have to get them taken out.
All right, wisdom teeth.
Okay, now for our next word and something that we all got as children.
Cavity.
A cavity.
It's a hole in your tooth.
A hole in your tooth.
And it's caused by?
Too much sugar.
Too much sugar, right?
Or not brushing your teeth enough.
So that's why everyone had it, I think, as children.
Cavities.
I never had a cavity.
Wow, didn't have much sugar?
I guess I was a bit of a health nut when I was a kid.
Well, no, I wasn't.
My mom was.
No, I guess not.
All right, but enough about my eating habits.
Let's talk about our next word, crown.
Crown.
A crown.
So a crown, this is interesting.
We're not talking kings and queens.
That's the first thing that comes to mind, right?
No, a crown is actually the visible part of your teeth.
Okay, so there's one part of your tooth that's inside that you can't see, right?
That's called the root.
So when he said your crown is loose, was he talking really about the actual tooth?
So sometimes people will lose a tooth or have a really bad cavity.
So the dentist needs to make a new crown or a new visible part of the tooth for you.
So sometimes it'll be made of gold.
Or porcelain.
Porcelain, exactly.
So a crown, it's like a really, really, really big filling.
So his crown needed to be refitted or put back into place.
Now our final word, filling.
Filling.
A filling.
So I just said this word previously.
Now when you have a cavity, you need to fill it in.
Right, you need to fill it with something.
It's usually some sort of paste.
And it gets really hard, just like your tooth.
So then it covers up this cavity.
I have many fillings.
I wasn't very healthy as a kid.
All right, not a good toothbrusher.
So why don't we listen to this dialogue again, and then we'll come back and talk a little
bit about some of the interesting phrases that the doctor used.
Hey, Gary.
Great to see you again.
Well, it looks like you have a cavity, and your crown is loose.
We'll need to put in a filling before it gets any worse.
Ah.
OK, spit.
Well, the dentist used three really interesting phrases, and I want to look at the first
one.
It's a very easy little sentence to ask somebody what's wrong.
And I mean, these are small, easy words, but when you put them together, they sound
really natural and really fluent.
So if you ask somebody what seems to be the problem, it's very polite, and it's a very
good way of asking what's wrong.
Our next phrase, also made up of simple words, let's have a look.
Let's have a look.
So this is a phrase that maybe your mechanic or your dentist or your doctor will say.
Or anyone.
Let's look at it and see what the problem is.
And our final phrase, it doesn't look good.
It doesn't look good.
So I can use this phrase for an object, right?
Like, this house doesn't look good.
But here it's used a little bit differently.
So why don't we listen to some examples to help us understand the meaning?
John told me it doesn't look good for me.
I probably won't get the job.
It doesn't look good for Michael Jackson.
He's in a lot of debt.
No, the economy doesn't look very good.
So in the examples, we can see that they are using it for the situation.
It looks maybe problematic.
So when you say it doesn't look good, you basically mean there are going to be problems.
So great phrases, great words.
Let's listen to our Gary at the dentist one more time.
And then we'll come back and talk a little bit more.
Well, Marco, speaking of dentists, have you ever had an experience like this where you
spat out a tooth at the dentist?
Well, nothing so serious as this, but actually, recently when I was in Cambodia...
Oh, right, you called us in Cambodia.
Well, our taxi driver offered us to have some local food.
And he said, well, we're going to have a dog.
So that was interesting.
Actually, it wasn't that bad.
It was pretty good.
But, you know, if you get around the fact that it's a dog...
So what does this have to do with your teeth?
I was eating it and I bit a bone that was hidden.
And I chipped my tooth.
So you broke part of your tooth.
Yeah, like half of it, which I had already chipped before.
So I had to go to the dentist.
And so the dentist created a new crown, not with gold or porcelain, actually with a paste.
And then it becomes hard and it just looks normal.
It doesn't even look like I have a fake crown, so to say.
But dentists can be really expensive.
So how much did this cost?
Well, this was for the bargain price of $10.
$10.
That's how much it cost.
So we should all go to Cambodia for dentistry.
Yeah, because actually it was pretty good.
He looked really young, though.
I was kind of scared because when he walked in, he looked like he was 19.
But I asked him his age and he was like 30.
OK, well, you're very trusting.
So I imagine that you guys maybe have some dental experiences.
So why don't you come to our website and tell us all about it?
Yeah, visit us at EnglishPod.com and you can find lots more resources for learning English
Well, guys, thanks for listening and until next time.
Hello everyone, welcome back to another lesson with us here at EnglishPod.
And today we're going back to school.
We're talking about my least favorite subject.
That would be math.
Okay, so we're going to be talking about math.
Now I know that many of you, of course, know math.
But do you know the operations in English?
Many people find it hard to find the right words to talk about math in English.
So that's what we're going to be looking at today.
And we'll also look at some names that you can call people who are really, really, really
smart.
So let's listen to our dialogue for the first time and then we'll come back and look at
those math words.
All right, children, let's review.
Tommy, pay attention.
Sorry, Miss Kadlec.
Okay, Crystal, now tell me.
What's four plus 11?
Um, 15.
Miss Kadlec always asks Crystal.
She's such a teacher's pet.
And what about 56 minus 60?
Um, negative four.
12 times 12?
Suck up.
144.
Zero divided by one?
Zero.
How did you know that?
Okay, smarty pants.
The square root of two.
Bet you're not going to get that one.
Do it all.
Um, um, 1.4142135.
All right, so that's one smart little girl, huh?
Yeah, pretty smart.
Actually, smarter than me in math.
All right, so let's take a look at some of those words that the teacher used to ask her
about certain operations in Language Takeaway.
Okay so like we said, you guys know how to do math and you know the words in your language,
but maybe in English it's a little bit harder to find the right words.
So let's look at those now.
Okay, so let's look at the first question that she asked.
Four plus 11.
Okay, plus.
Plus.
So four plus 11, Erica, is?
Uh, let me take a look at here.
15.
Okay, so we are adding, right?
So that's how you would say.
Let's go with an easy one.
Two plus two.
Four.
Four, right?
Or five plus five.
Ten.
Ten, okay.
You're really testing my skills.
So that's how you would add numbers.
Now what about taking away numbers?
Okay, so taking away or subtracting.
All right, let's test you again.
In the dialogue, she said 56 minus 60.
56 minus 60 equals negative four.
Okay, minus.
So that's negative, right?
Minus.
So, and of course, if you have 56 apples and you take away 60, you are left with?
Negative four.
Well, actually, you're left with zero apples.
Now, that answer is also interesting, negative four.
That means minus four, right?
Four less than zero.
Okay, so now for our next operation.
Twelve times twelve.
Now, Marco, don't ask me the answer.
All right, twelve times twelve equals 144.
Now that's multiplying.
Right, or multiplication.
Multiplication.
Yeah, multiplication.
Okay, so this times part, it's very easy to remember because, for example, four times
four.
You can just say four, the number four, and you add it, right?
Four times.
Four plus four plus four plus four.
Right, so times.
Times.
Now, the opposite of times.
All right, the opposite of multiplication is division.
Division.
Okay, so in our dialogue, the teacher said zero divided by one.
Zero divided by one.
Any number divided by zero is zero.
All right, so let's give another example.
Fifteen divided by three.
All right, so fifteen divided by three equals?
Five.
Five, exactly.
So divided by.
Divided by.
So after division, the teacher was very impressed, and now she asked a very hard mathematical
operation, especially for a girl this age.
The square root of.
Square root.
So let's give some examples to show what is the square root.
Okay, so if I ask you the square root of nine.
Three.
Three, right?
What about the square root of four?
Two, okay.
So now one more.
The square root of sixteen.
Okay, so you noticed the pattern, right?
And I'm sure everyone knows this in their own language, how you would get a square root.
So, this language is pretty simple.
You all know it in your own language, but let's hear it again in English one more time
with the dialogue.
Alright, children, let's review.
What's four plus eleven?
Um, fifteen.
Okay, and what about fifty-six minus sixty?
Twelve times twelve?
Very good, suck up.
One forty-four.
Okay smarty pants, the square root of two.
Bet you're not going to get that one, do it all.
Um, um, one point four, one four, two one three five.
Okay, so we understand the mathematical operations that we saw here, very easy.
But now there was another little kid in there who was very, I think, envious or jealous.
Yeah, Tommy.
Tommy, right?
So he called her a couple of different names.
Well let's look at those now in Fluency Builder.
Okay, so the first one that he called Crystal, the little girl, he called her a teacher's
pet.
Teacher's pet.
So Erica, what exactly is a teacher's pet?
It is the favorite student the teacher has in that class.
Alright, so it's always the student that's helping the teacher.
Yeah, the smartest student.
The teacher's pet.
Yeah, and it has a negative meaning in English.
Yeah, I wouldn't say that it's a good thing to be the teacher's pet.
Like the teacher thinks it's good.
But all of the friends and the classmates, they think it's bad.
And similar to teacher's pet is a suck up.
Again, suck up.
What is a suck up?
A suck up is a person who tries really, really hard to make the teacher like him.
Okay, now we can also use it outside of the classroom, right?
Yeah, at work maybe.
Okay, there is always at work, there is always one person who's the suck up, right?
Now again, this has a negative meaning in English.
Yeah, I guess in the workplace, the rest of your colleagues don't really like that person
who's considered to be the suck up, who's always trying to please the boss.
All right, so the teacher calls Crystal a smarty pants.
Smarty pants.
Okay, so this is also a little name calling, right?
So what is a smarty pants?
Somebody who is too smart.
Too smart.
Who tries too hard to be smart.
Now this is only for little kids, right?
I wouldn't call you a smarty pants, right?
No, it's definitely for children.
Adults don't say this.
Unless maybe you are joking or having fun with someone.
Yeah, but if you say it, you are suggesting that you're being like a child.
And our last one, and this is also a very good phrase and a way to describe someone,
know it all.
Know it all.
A know it all.
Sometimes you say Mr. Know it all, right?
Okay, so what is a know it all?
Somebody who tries to show everyone that they know it all.
They know everything.
Yeah, they're so smart.
They have the answers to everything.
But they really, really try and show everyone that they know everything.
These people can be sometimes a little bit irritating, right?
Yeah, very, very annoying.
Annoying.
All right, so it's not a good thing to be a know it all all the time.
Yeah, actually all of these phrases are not good things to be.
Okay, so let's listen to our dialogue one more time and then we're going to come back
and Erica's going to tell us how much she hates math.
All right children, let's review.
Sorry, Miss Catlett.
Fifteen.
Miss Catlett always asks Crystal.
Okay, and what about 56 minus 60?
Bet you're not going to get that one, know it all.
1.4142135.
All right, so Erica, you were telling me that you hated math or you still do.
Well, yes, that's true.
I really do hate math and even doing a simple, you know, like 16 plus 32 is too hard for
me.
So you were never really that type of person that's good with numbers.
No, I'm terrible with numbers.
I can't even remember my own phone number.
Like I really, if someone asks me for my phone number, I have to look on my phone in the
address book to find it.
Well, yeah, sometimes numbers can be difficult.
I kind of liked math when I was younger.
It just made sense.
Well, I guess there's a reason why I'm an English teacher and not a math teacher.
And I was actually not very good at language.
But here you are.
Well, I mean, in Spanish, I like grammar.
Not very good at that, all those rules.
Yeah, but you're pretty good at English.
Oh, that's all right.
That's all right.
What about you guys?
Tell us what your favorite subject or your least favorite subject in school was.
Do you have any favorite subject or did you have a favorite subject?
I liked chemistry for a while.
Oh, God.
Chemistry involves numbers.
Well, a little bit, but it was interesting as well.
So come to the website, everyone, EnglishPod.com and you can find lots of other resources there.
And also be sure to check out our activity stream where you can answer and ask very quick
questions depending on your level.
So you can choose if you're an elementary student, then you would be talking to other
elementaries.
Thanks for downloading this lesson and until next time, goodbye.
Hello everyone, welcome back to another great lesson here with us at EnglishPod.
And today we're going to be in one of my favorite sporting events, which is?
F1, of course.
F1 racing, alright.
So yeah, we're going to be talking about racing, specifically F1, which is a very popular sport
all over the world.
Yeah, I think maybe it's like number two in popularity after soccer.
I have no numbers to back that up though.
Well they do travel everywhere, they have races all over the world and just people love
Well, it is kind of a cool thing.
Well, going 300 kilometers per hour in a car is pretty cool.
Alright, so let's not delay this any longer.
Let's listen to our dialogue for the first time.
Welcome back racing fans, my name is Rick Fields and as always I'm joined by my partner
in crime, Bob Copeland.
We're in the last stretch of this very exciting race and Kimi Raikonen is leading the pack
with only four laps to go.
They're heading to turn three and Lewis Hamilton tries to pass Raikonen.
It's a close one and oh no, Hamilton hits the wall.
He came in too fast, jammed on the brakes and spun out.
We have a yellow flag and the pace car is making its way onto the track.
The cleanup crew is towing the heavily damaged car and the green flag drops.
Raikonen is still in the lead with only two laps to go.
Smoke is coming out of his car.
He seems to be having engine trouble.
He makes his way under the pit and Fernando Alonso takes the lead.
How unlucky for Raikonen and this race is over, ladies and gentlemen.
Alonso takes the checkered flag.
What an exciting race.
I always love a good crash when it comes to car races.
I think many people go to races expecting to see a crash.
They don't want to see people getting hurt.
No, but a little bit of...
The emotion of just car crashes and stuff.
Yeah, a little explosion here and there.
So, now we saw some really exciting language related to racing.
So why don't we look at that now in Language Takeaway.
Alright, so we were talking about that crash and I think what led to the crash was the
driver jammed on the brakes.
He jammed on the brakes.
To jam on the brakes.
Now, if I jam on the brakes...
You push the brakes really, really hard and really quickly and really suddenly.
So you jam on the brakes and you stop very quickly.
So Lewis Hamilton jammed on the brakes and consequently spun out.
To spin out.
In the present, it would be spin out.
Spin out.
So, imagine yourselves driving your car on a very wet road.
And then you jam on the brakes.
So then the car, you kind of lose control of the car and it starts to spin.
It goes in circles.
That would be to spin out.
This has actually happened to me more than once.
Were you okay?
Yeah, I was fine.
I was fine.
So, the car spun out.
Now, in racing, you always see this really cool car come out and be ahead of everyone
when there's an accident.
That's called the pace car.
The pace car.
Pace car.
Now, why is it called the pace car?
Because it sets the pace.
The pace or the speed.
So, pace means speed.
So, the car spun out and no other car can pass it.
Everyone must go at the same speed.
So, after there's an accident, the cleanup crew must come out.
Cleanup crew.
So, crew, this is an interesting word.
When we talk about a crew, we talk about a group of people who work together.
But, for example, in an office, can I have a crew?
Not really.
Not commonly, right?
People work together and they use their hands to work.
They do manual labor.
So, I can say, for example, a construction crew.
Or maybe the ground crew at the airport.
Or the flight crew.
Also at the airport.
Well, in the airplane.
So, that's a crew.
So, cleanup crew.
Now, they came out to take that car away, that broken or damaged vehicle.
So, they were towing it.
Tow.
The verb to tow.
To tow.
So, what does it mean when you tow something or you tow a car?
You pull something behind you.
So, if you're a truck, that might pull a car behind you.
That's a tow truck.
A tow truck.
Now, this happens commonly if you park your vehicle where you are not supposed to.
And your car will get towed.
Your car gets towed.
So, we saw five really great words related to racing.
And now, why don't we listen to our dialogue again and then we'll look at some other interesting
Welcome back, race fans.
And as always, I'm joined by my partner in crime, Bob Copeland.
We're in the last stretch of this very exciting race.
And Kimi Raikonen is leading the pack with only four laps to go.
They are heading to turn three and Lewis Hamilton tries to pass Raikonen.
He makes his way into the pit and Fernando Alonso takes the lead.
How unlucky for Raikonen.
And this race is over, ladies and gentlemen.
So now we're back and I think it's time for us to take a look at some phrases in FluencyBuilder.
Well, even though we're talking about F1 racing, a lot of the language can be used
in many different situations.
So let's look at some of those phrases now.
When Rick Fields introduced his co-host, he said, my partner in crime.
Partner in crime.
Now, it's not that they're actually committing a crime.
No, they're not actually bank robbers.
But it's a very common and friendly way of saying my good friend or my...
The person I do everything with.
Right, my co-worker, for example.
But a co-worker who's a really, really good friend, who you spend a lot of time with.
So that's your partner in crime.
It's just a metaphor, right?
So partner in crime.
Now what about the next phrase?
The last stretch.
Last stretch.
Okay, before we explain this word, let's listen to some examples and then we'll come back
and talk about it.
We are finally in the last stretch of a very long week.
I can't wait to go home.
He's in the last stretch of his college years and soon he'll graduate.
Okay, so I understand that to mean like the final length of time.
The last or final moments before an ending.
All right, so the last stretch.
Now when you're on the last stretch, you just have a few minutes to go.
To go.
Yeah, to go.
Now this preposition to and the verb go is very easy, right?
But if you say five minutes to go, what does that mean?
Five minutes left.
Left.
It doesn't mean it's five minutes to actually leave, right?
It means you must complete five minutes before you can be finished.
So it's not about exiting.
I have five days to go before I go on vacation.
So it's not about you actually going on the vacation, it's about you passing those five
days.
Can you give us another example?
How about we have 45 minutes to go before the end of the day.
So to go.
Now let's take a look at our last phrase.
Close one.
A close one.
Another interesting phrase made up of simple words.
So let's listen to some examples to help us understand it.
The teacher almost caught me cheating.
It's a close one.
The sun is up and the tide and the game is almost over.
My girlfriend almost found the presents I hid under the bed.
It was a close one.
So a close one, it means?
A situation that is almost dangerous but wasn't.
But wasn't.
So very good phrases.
I think we can take a lot from this and apply it outside of F1, right?
So let's listen to the dialogue for the last time and then we'll come back and talk about
this great sport.
Welcome back racing fans.
My name is Rick Fields and as always I'm joined by my partner in crime, Bob Copeland.
We're in the last stretch of this very exciting race and Kimi Raikkonen is leading the pack
They're heading to turn three and Lewis Hamilton tries to pass Raikkonen.
We have yellow flag and the pace car is making its way into the track.
Raikkonen is still in the lead with only two laps to go.
Now unlucky for Raikkonen and this race is over ladies and gentlemen.
Alright so F1 racing.
Erika, do you like it?
Do you watch it?
Yeah, F1 is pretty neat.
You know, cars that drive fast, that's pretty interesting.
Well for some people it isn't, right, like why do I want to go to a race and just see
fast cars?
Okay, I would never go to a race but I think it's, I would maybe watch the highlights on
TV.
Well actually this year it's really exciting because again we're going to have a night
race, I think it's in Malaysia or somewhere in Asia that they're going to race at night.
So that's pretty special, huh?
Well it's like harder to see and you're going really fast, imagine.
So I hear you're going to the F1 this year.
Yes, this year I'm going to go to the Shanghai circuit to watch the F1 race so I'm really
excited about that.
I haven't ever been to one so it should be fun.
Alright well I hope you get to see some interesting things like car crashes and pace cars.
What about you guys, our listeners?
Are you fans of F1?
Have you ever been to an F1 race?
Exactly, send us your questions and comments and also your stories.
I think we have listeners from all over the world.
We have a lot of listeners in Brazil and I know that there is a Grand Prix there so tell
us how did it go?
Do you like it?
You can visit us at EnglishPod.com where Marco and I are around to answer your questions.
Any Canadian race car drivers?
Yeah, there was one recently.
Someone, some, something.
Alright, maybe our users know which one is the Canadian.
So we'll see you guys there.
You can
And today we're bringing you an advanced lesson for all of our advanced learners out there.
And in this lesson, we're visiting a history class.
Yes, we're going to be talking about a very interesting topic that's known around the
world which is International Workers' Day.
And we're going to learn a little bit about the history of the workers' movement in the
United States.
Right, but we're also going to be taking a look at some great words and of course a little
bit more advanced or complicated structures.
So I guess without further ado, we can get started with the dialogue.
All right everyone, settle down.
Let's get started.
As you know, an important aspect of becoming a good citizen is understanding the genesis
of our legal system.
It's not enough to simply memorize our laws.
It's necessary that we comprehend why and how they were formed.
This brings me to our topic for today.
Does anyone know what we celebrate on May 1st?
Cinco de Mayo.
No, that's May 5th in Spanish, James.
No wonder you're failing my Spanish class.
No, May 1st is International Workers' Day.
Do we get a day off from school then?
It is not considered to be a national holiday here in the US, but in other countries it
In the 19th century, working conditions were appalling with workers being forced to work
10, 12, and 14 hours a day.
Support for the 8-hour workday movement was growing rapidly, despite the indifference
and hostility of many union leaders.
And by April 1886, 250,000 workers were involved in the May Day movement.
Previous legislative attempts to improve working conditions had failed, so labor organizers
took drastic measures.
They passed a resolution stating that 8 hours would constitute a legal day's work.
And on May 1st, 1886, the resolution took effect.
Is that why we only work 8 hours now?
But the happy ending came at a high price.
On May 3rd, 1886, police fired into a crowd of strikers at the McCormick Reaper Works
factory, killing four and wounding many.
A mass meeting was called for the next day to protest the brutality.
And then what happened?
Well, as we say, the rest is history.
So we were in a history class and we learned something new, something interesting, right?
International Workers' Day.
It's not celebrated in the US, but in many other countries it is.
On May 1st, a lot of people have a day off, so that's always good.
So why don't we take a look at some of the words that we saw in this dialogue, which
were maybe a little bit different or difficult in Language Takeaway.
We're just going to look at five words here.
And the first one, we talked about the genesis of the movement.
Genesis.
So many of you may know that Genesis is a book in the Bible, right?
And that's where this word comes from.
It's the first book in the Bible.
So it's the beginning.
Or the origin.
Origin.
So that's a genesis.
The genesis of our legal system, you would say.
Or the genesis of this problem.
So it's the origin.
It's a little bit of a formal word, isn't it?
I guess maybe you can say the origin or the beginning.
But maybe in an academic setting, you can talk about the genesis.
What do we have next?
Well, one of the reasons why the workers' movement got started was because of the appalling
working conditions.
Appalling.
So if something is appalling...
It's shockingly bad.
Very very bad.
So now if something is appalling, like the working conditions were appalling...
You would feel appalled.
I'm appalled at your behavior.
So it's almost like you are disgusted.
Very very strong word.
Very strong.
So the working conditions were appalling and people were setting up this movement, right?
But what happened?
They met some hostility.
Hostility.
Hostility from the police, right?
So what is hostility?
Hostility is the state of receiving an unfriendly reaction.
They acted in a very unfriendly way and it also suggests, you know, a hint of violence
even.
So if somebody is hostile, they can maybe be aggressive and maybe to a point, violent.
So a hostile person.
Or a hostile environment, a dangerous environment.
Very hostile.
Now because of these appalling working conditions, the labor movement decided to take drastic
measures.
Drastic measures.
This is a really wonderful phrase and I think it would help us to listen to a few examples
of this phrase in use.
The president was faced with some difficult decisions and was forced to take drastic measures
to solve the crisis.
The police took very drastic measures to control the protesters outside the government palace.
So we understand drastic measures as extreme actions or decisions, right?
I think there's a saying that says desperate times call for drastic measures.
No, desperate times call for desperate measures.
Dang.
Well, okay, but it goes around there somewhere, right?
Something like that.
So if you really have an emergency, you need to do something drastic.
You have to take drastic measures or you can even say take drastic action.
After the protests ended in violence, people started to get angry because of the brutality
the police showed.
Brutality.
So maybe brutality and hostility are maybe similar, right?
A little bit similar.
So brutality is the state of being harsh or very forceful.
So brutality.
Now, we also use the word brutal.
So that means harsh or very forceful.
Now sometimes we can use that word, but not in a harsh or forceful way, right?
And it's quite, yeah.
I might say something like, oh my God, that test was brutal.
It was brutal or...
So it was really hard or really difficult.
So that's what you're saying with this word that it's very hard or it was very intense.
So for example, I can say, oh, I went for a run today and it was brutal.
I'm so tired.
So it was really difficult.
And Marco, is this something that's used by everyone?
That phrase, brutal, using in that context would be for younger people maybe.
Not really, you wouldn't really hear older people using it.
So it's a little bit slangy.
So those are five interesting vocabulary words.
As Marco mentioned, we want to look at some more difficult structures now in Fluency Builder.
So we have some phrases that we saw in this dialogue and well, let's start with the first
Well, the teacher opens his discussion by talking about how an understanding of the
legal system is an important aspect of being a good citizen.
An important aspect.
So, well, maybe we know the word important, right?
So what's an aspect?
Obviously, a part of something, an important part of something.
So the teacher started with an important aspect of and then specified the idea or what part
it belongs to.
So it usually follows this form.
Noun is an important aspect of noun.
So for example, quality control is an important aspect of keeping customers happy.
A part of.
So it's a lot more formal or just a lot more intelligent, right?
Yeah, professional.
And actually, this is a wonderful way of setting up your idea.
So the teacher said that it's an important aspect of understanding the legal system was
understanding its origins or its genesis.
And then she moved on and said that it's not enough to simply memorize laws.
It's not enough to simply do something.
So the beginning of this sentence, it is not enough to simply something.
By starting a sentence like this, you are indicating that more is required, right?
So here, it's not enough to simply memorize the laws.
We're saying that most people just memorize the laws, but they need to go further.
And understand them.
Another example would be, it's not enough to simply pass your exams.
You must get good grades as well.
Or maybe in a business context.
It's not enough to simply satisfy your customers.
You must impress them.
So that's a very good way of starting out this idea of more is required.
More is required.
Well, I want to move on to one final point here.
I found this sentence to be really, really interesting.
They passed a resolution stating that eight hours would constitute a legal day's work.
So why is this interesting?
Well, I found that, you know, there's two verbs going on here.
They passed a resolution that eight hours would constitute a legal day's work.
So we've got two verb times going on here at the same time.
And I'm wondering about this one would.
So what's happening here?
Obviously this happened in the past.
It's like about a hundred years ago, right?
So the resolution was passed a hundred years ago.
So this is going on in the past.
But there was a future action that was going to happen in consequence of this.
So the resolution stated that eight hours would constitute.
So that's like the primary action was the passing of the resolution.
And the result is this sort of this event that happens in the past, but is a future
event to the first primary event.
Does that make any sense at all?
So this is called the future in the past, right?
So it's a grammar structure.
Many of you maybe know the simple present or the future tenses, but this is a little
strange one.
As we said, so maybe it's a little bit difficult to understand the grammar in general.
So why don't we take a look at some more examples of how we would use this future in the past.
The president said that he would cut taxes by 5%.
I made a promise that I would not smoke anymore.
Carl told me he would buy a new car.
So now I think it's clear this whole idea of the future in the past and well, we'll
also be answering any questions on the site if you have any problems, right?
So why don't we listen to the dialogue one more time and then we'll come back and talk
about this holiday, which is the International Workers' Day.
All right, everyone, settle down.
Man.
In the 19th century, working conditions were appalling, with workers being forced to work
Support for the eight-hour workday movement was growing rapidly, despite the indifference
Is that why we only work eight hours now?
All right, so Erica, in Canada, do you celebrate this?
We do, but not on May 1st.
When is it?
The first weekend in September.
And why?
Um, I am not 100% sure.
I think it's because we already have a long weekend in May, because on the 24th of May
is Queen Victoria's birthday, so we have to celebrate that.
So you have two vacations in the same month.
Oh, wow.
Well, yeah, I mean, it's not productive, right?
Yeah, we do.
On May 1st, it's a holiday, and we actually have two holidays in May as well, because
on the 24th, we actually celebrate the Battle of Pichincha, which is one of the decisive
battles for the independence of Ecuador.
So we don't mind having two holidays in the same month.
Well, it sounds like Ecuador has a better holiday schedule than Canada.
So yeah, on May 1st, people take vacations, and our companies usually on May 1st will
do something special for their employees.
Oh, that's kind of a nice gesture, isn't it?
Yeah, so it's like, it's Workers' Day, so they'll set up maybe a barbecue or a trip
or something like that.
So that's what usually happens on May 1st.
Well, what about in your country's listeners?
Do you celebrate May Day?
May Day.
May 1st, right?
And if you do, well, let us know.
Go to EnglishPod.com and leave your questions and comments there as well.
Thank you for downloading this lesson, and until next time, goodbye.
And today we have a special lesson for all our sci-fi or science fiction fans.
Yes, and actually one special user was the inspiration for this lesson.
Wolfgang.
This one is for you.
Well, sci-fi is very popular, Star Trek, Star Wars.
And well, there are some really interesting words that maybe you wouldn't use in real life or in normal circumstances.
But you do want to understand these movies or why they say these words, right?
So we're going to look at some sci-fi language in this lesson.
But before we start, let's look at Vocabulary Preview.
And in Vocabulary Preview today, we have one phrase only.
Unidentified spacecraft.
So unidentified.
You don't know which one it is.
You don't know the name.
You don't know the identity.
And a spacecraft.
A spacecraft is a vehicle that travels in space.
Also known as a spaceship.
Actually, this is interesting because you know the word UFO.
That comes from...
Unidentified flying object.
So unidentified spacecraft, an unknown vehicle flying in space.
A UFO.
Have you ever seen a UFO?
That's too bad.
Have you?
Hasn't anyone?
Well, I think the people in our dialogue may or may not have seen a UFO.
So why don't we take a listen?
They are breaking through.
Set your blasters to full power.
Good job.
Search the ship.
She's got to be in here somewhere.
Bring her to me.
Lord Hater, we have a survivor here.
Where is she?
Don't make me destroy you.
Tell me where she is.
Not so fast.
She will no longer be your prisoner.
It's time you and I settled this once and for all.
You are unwise to think you can defeat me.
You know nothing of the power of the obscure side.
We will stop you.
Lord Hater, we have an unidentified spacecraft taking off from the rear dock.
They somehow managed to escape our tractor beam.
After them.
They're accelerating towards the speed of light.
We lost them, sir.
Okay, so a really cool Lord Hater, huh?
The music and everything.
Well, you may have noticed that it's similar to a certain movie out there.
I mean, it seems quite original to me.
But everything for educational purposes.
Okay, so we saw some words that were maybe a little bit difficult.
So let's take a look at these now in Language Takeaway.
Well, I guess in the dialogue, the bad guys were breaking through.
Breaking through.
In the simple present, it would be?
To break through.
Okay, break through.
And what does that mean?
Well, let's listen to some examples to help us find out.
After 15 minutes, the workers broke through the wall and rescued everyone from the fire.
He is such a good player.
He broke through the entire defense.
They are breaking through our impenetrable wall.
All right, so it's kind of like to enter by force somewhere.
Yeah, to maybe break some glass and come into a room or something like that.
Break through.
All right, so Lord Hater had a fight with his enemy and he said he wants to settle this.
To settle this.
Settle.
So what do you do when you settle something?
Well, when you settle something is you end a fight or a dispute.
Or an argument.
Or an argument or a problem.
Yeah, when you settle an argument, does everyone always agree?
No, not always, right?
Sometimes you are forced to agree.
Not everyone agrees, but you have no other choice.
So it's a little bit different from reaching an agreement because there's usually a winner and a loser.
Well, now another very popular word and within sci-fi is this word tractor beam.
Tractor beam.
A tractor beam.
Now, I'm not sure if this really exists in real life.
Well, I've never heard of it.
But a tractor beam in sci-fi movies is like this invisible force that grabs an object and doesn't let it escape and brings it towards another spaceship.
So it's like almost like a rope that you can't see.
Right, and it brings it in.
So the spaceship managed to escape their tractor beam.
Okay, I think that is definitely not true.
Well, maybe, I don't know.
But in sci-fi you will always hear this tractor beam.
Now, let's move on to our final word.
The spaceship was accelerating towards the speed of light.
Accelerating.
To accelerate.
So that means to increase speed, right?
Yeah, to go faster.
To go faster.
So if you are in your car.
You want to accelerate so you can pass another car.
Or even when you stop at a red light and it turns green.
You got to accelerate.
Okay, to accelerate.
Let's listen to our dialogue again and then we'll come back and take a look at some of the phrases that came up in this dialogue.
Well, great.
I think that's a little bit more clear this time.
But like Marco said, I want to look at now some phrases that you might hear in a sci-fi context.
The first phrase that we can take a look at and maybe it looks a little bit strange.
He said she will no longer be your prisoner.
No longer be.
So what does he mean by no longer?
Anymore.
Anymore, right?
Yeah, so you will not be my prisoner anymore.
Okay, so how would I use it in this form?
You've always got to use it in the future tense.
Okay, so she'll no longer be your prisoner.
I will no longer be your employee.
Okay, or I can say I will no longer be your boyfriend.
Okay, so it's always will no longer be.
It's always in the future.
One more thing, Marco.
Is this quite commonly used or maybe a little bit formal?
I think it's a little bit formal and it's very, I don't know, to a certain point poetic.
Yeah, which I think is why we hear it a little bit more often in sci-fi movies.
All right, so no longer be.
Okay, you know nothing of.
You know nothing of.
So again, it's very poetic.
Yeah, basically meaning you don't know about.
You don't know about.
So again, let's take a look at how you would use it.
You know nothing of and then.
Science fiction.
You know nothing of science fiction.
So you would use a noun afterwards.
Okay, so interesting phrases.
Again, formal and probably quite often used in science fiction movies.
But now you can understand when they use some of these words that maybe are a little bit difficult and very common in these types of movies.
Now let's go to our last phrase.
And this one actually can be used in many different circumstances.
Let's settle this once and for all.
Okay, so we saw the word settle already.
Now let's settle this once and for all.
Once and for all.
So what does that mean?
Finally.
That's right, forever.
Okay, so once and for all, forever.
So why don't we listen to some other examples of how we can use this phrase once and for all in different contexts.
I'm fed up with arguing about this.
Let's just settle the argument once and for all.
He claims his photographs prove once and for all that UFOs do exist.
I told him once and for all that I don't want to be his girlfriend anymore.
Okay, so now I think it's clear.
We've seen a lot of words.
We've seen a lot of phrases.
Let's listen to our dialogue one more time.
Excellent job.
Lord Hager, we have a survivor here.
I'm sure you and I settled this once and for all.
Lord Hager, we have an unidentified spacecraft taking off from the rear dock.
Okay, so are you a big sci-fi fan?
I think as you can tell, no.
Actually, I've seen some of the Star Wars movies, but everyone that I've watched, I've fallen asleep in the middle of.
Yeah, even in the movie theater.
I fell asleep in the movie theater watching Star Wars.
Wow, was it too boring?
It was too boring.
You're not really into the fantasy side?
No, the whole time I'm sitting there going, this cannot happen.
Well, that's why it's called science fiction, right?
But it is interesting to some people, and well, behind Star Wars, there is a huge culture.
Even some people know some of the languages or symbols that are used in it, or the names of some of the robots and models of spacecraft.
Well, maybe we'll have to come up with Star Wars pods.
Well, that's all for today, guys.
I hope you enjoyed our lesson.
And of course, if you have questions or comments, you can leave them in the comments section on our website, EnglishPod.com.
Well, thanks for listening, you guys, and until next time, goodbye.
Hello everyone, welcome back to EnglishPod. My name is Marco.
And today we're bringing you again our romantic, dramatic, suspense series, I'm Sorry I Love
You Part 7.
So we're gonna find out what's happening with Steven and Veronica.
Right, in the last episode, Veronica was at the doctor's, she was pregnant.
But then the doctor told her it was a lie and he made it up and she wasn't even pregnant.
So now let's see what Veronica and Steven are gonna say to each other.
Maybe they will break up?
But let's listen.
Thank God you showed up when you did.
He's insane.
Do you think we should call the police?
I'll call my friend and have him take care of it.
I can't believe he was stalking you all these years.
What a nutjob.
Well, he said I'm not pregnant.
I'm sorry if I got you all worked up over nothing.
I want you to know that I didn't do it on purpose.
Don't apologize.
From the moment I met you, not a day has gone by when I haven't thought of you.
And now that I'm with you again, I'm just...
I'm just scared, Veronica.
The closer I get to you, the worse it gets.
The thought of not being with you, I mean, I just can't handle it.
We were made for each other, Veronica.
You're my everything.
My soulmate.
What can I do?
Just hold me.
I'll always be here for you, no matter what.
And together, we can tackle whatever life throws at us.
I believe in us, Steven.
I'm so happy to hear that.
I know we belong together.
It was such a romantic moment.
And now what happened?
Somebody got shot.
This is like so big.
I can't believe this is happening.
Well, it's a very intense drama, but we saw some great words and a lot of great phrases
in there when Steven was telling her all these beautiful words, right?
So why don't we look at some of these words now in Language Takeaway.
Veronica was glad or she was very happy that Steven showed up.
Showed up.
So, to show up.
To come to a place.
Or to arrive.
So let's listen to some examples of how we can use show up in different contexts.
We were waiting for you like an hour and you never showed up.
I didn't invite him to the party.
He just simply showed up uninvited.
After months of being lost, my dog finally showed up with a family.
So I think it's pretty clear now the verb show up.
And I think this verb is a little bit informal, isn't it?
You wouldn't really tell your boss, hey, I'm waiting for you to show up.
It's a bit too informal.
As you know, the doctor, he was stalking Veronica.
So that's our next word.
To stalk.
To stalk somebody.
S-T-A-L-K.
Stalk.
Now, this isn't a good thing, right?
This is bad.
So what happens when you stalk someone?
You follow them secretly for a long time.
And then maybe you watch them and...
Like you're standing outside their window watching them get undressed or something.
So many famous people have stalkers, right?
Which is the noun.
The noun form, exactly.
So if I am stalking somebody, I am considered to be a stalker.
So to stalk.
So don't do this.
So Stephen described this stalker as a nut job.
A nut job.
Very, very informal and it doesn't really mean anything literally, but it's crazy.
It means a crazy person.
A crazy person.
What a nut job.
He's a nut job.
So would you really call this to someone, like to their face?
Definitely not.
It's definitely impolite.
You can't say to someone, oh, you're a nut job.
But it's not a swear word.
No, but it's a little bit insulting, right?
It's like saying you're crazy, but stronger.
Well, the doctor was a nut job.
He was stalking her and she apologized to Stephen for getting him worked up.
Worked up.
So work up.
To be worked up.
When you get worked up, what happens?
You get really emotional and usually angry or sad or upset, but a negative emotion.
So you got worked up.
So it's always used with the verb to get.
So to get worked up.
You get worked up.
You got worked up.
And well, Stephen got worked up over nothing, but he didn't mind.
He said she is his love and he called her his soulmate.
His soulmate.
Soulmate.
That's a very romantic word, meaning the perfect person for you.
Your other half.
So your soulmate is that perfect compliment for you.
And it's usually romantic, right?
Usually romantic, but sometimes you might use it with your very, very, very best friend.
Because you understand each other.
You know what the other one's thinking.
You're the perfect fit together.
Well, we've seen some really interesting words.
So why don't we listen to our dialogue again, and then we'll come back and look at some
of the phrases that were used.
And now that I'm with you again, I'm just scared, Veronica.
That was a little bit more clear this time, but now I want to look at some phrases in
the dialogue and see how they can be put together.
So Veronica apologized to Steven for getting him worked up over nothing.
Over nothing.
Now it's the complete sentence.
I'm sorry for getting you worked up over nothing.
So over nothing means for no reason, right?
So why don't we listen to some other examples of how we can use over nothing.
You always get angry over nothing.
You have such a bad temper.
I called the police last night over nothing.
I thought I had a thief in my house.
Let's not fight over nothing.
Let's just have dinner in peace.
Okay so we see you can use many different verbs together with over nothing.
So get excited over nothing, get angry over nothing, get upset over nothing.
So over nothing.
And now for our next phrase.
So when Steven was telling Veronica how much he loved her, he told her, not a day has
gone by when I haven't thought of you.
So not a day has gone by.
So that part of the sentence, not a day has gone by, what does he mean by that?
He means basically every day I think of you.
There hasn't been a moment where I haven't thought of you.
Now how can we change it a little bit?
What can we change within this phrase?
Well, you can put in different times.
So not a day has gone by, not an hour has gone by, not a moment has gone by.
Not a month, not a year.
So you can use different times in that phrase.
But an important thing is that the complement is always negative, right?
So it's always followed by a negative.
Not a day has gone by that I haven't wished you were here.
So it's followed by a negative.
Maybe one more.
Not a second has gone by that I haven't missed you.
Very good examples.
Very romantic.
Oh Marco.
He told her I'll always be here for you no matter what.
What does he mean by that?
Well, regardless of or you know, nothing's going to stop me.
So if I want to get that job, I'm going to get it no matter what.
So nothing's going to stop you.
Now we can change the WH word, what, at the end, right?
With other ones.
So, no matter where you are, I will find you.
No matter when.
No matter when your birthday is, I will be there.
You can see how you can use different WH words here.
And it's a very common phrase, right?
No matter where.
No matter why.
No matter how.
So those were some really great phrases and I think you can play with them a little bit,
change some things and then you can use them in your everyday life.
But why don't we hear them again one more time in context with the dialogue.
You're my everything, my soulmate.
Okay Erika, so who do you think got shot?
I don't know, but I'm starting to think this story is becoming a soap opera.
Well, it certainly is and well, what do you guys think happened or who do you think got
shot or?
Who did the shooting?
Who shot who?
Maybe...
Was it even a gunshot?
Maybe it was just the car.
The tire could have popped.
So well, come to our website, tell us what you think happens or what you would like to
happen because I know many people are expecting a little bit more romance maybe and less drama.
But if you have any questions about the language in this lesson, please visit the website at
Erika and I are always there to answer your questions and well, anything you guys need.
Anything?
Anything.
Well, thanks for listening to this lesson and until next time, goodbye.
And today we're going to be going to one of those places that is really common, right?
We're going to the hair salon.
The hair salon or maybe also called a barber shop.
I guess in this case it's a barber shop because it's a man who's getting his hair cut.
Okay, so before we see what happens in this barber shop, let's take a look at some of
the vocabulary we might encounter in Vocabulary Preview.
Okay, we're going to look at two words that you'll hear in this dialogue.
And the first one is trim.
Trim.
A trim.
All right, so when you trim something.
You cut just a little bit of it.
All right, so if I go to the hair salon to get a trim.
You are going to cut only a little bit of your hair.
You're not going to change the style and make it look different.
Okay, so a trim.
And I think here we've seen that it can be a verb and a noun, right?
Okay, so I'm going to get a trim.
Or I want you to trim my hair.
Fancy.
So fancy.
Now, we know that this word maybe is related to something like luxury.
Or formal or something like that.
So in this case or in this context, we're going to be using it a little bit different.
Here in this dialogue, we'll hear nothing too fancy.
Or nothing too complicated.
Nothing too different.
So we don't want anything too fancy.
With these two words in mind, I think we're ready to listen to the dialogue.
Hello there.
Come on in.
Don't just stand there.
Come and take a seat.
Well, I just want a trim.
Nothing too fancy.
Your hair is amazing.
So silky.
So shiny.
I am going to work my magic on your hair.
You hear me?
You are going to look like a million bucks.
Can you make sure my sideburns are even?
And you just take a little at the top.
Don't you worry.
I just love your curly hair.
It's so fluffy and cute.
You should totally let it grow out.
An afro would look great on you.
But you are going to be my masterpiece.
Okay, so I think maybe his haircut is not quite what he expected.
I think he trusted the stylist a little bit too much.
I think the stylist had too many Red Bulls or something.
He was very hyper.
Maybe that was his problem.
So why don't we take a look now at some of the language that we saw in Language Takeaway.
So I guess the stylist really thought this guy had nice hair, right?
Yeah, we heard how he described his hair.
He said it was so silky.
Silky.
So we know the word silk, a material, very soft and smooth material.
And when something is silky, it's very soft and smooth.
So silky hair.
Or silky skin.
So he said he had silky and shiny hair.
Shiny.
So we know what shiny is.
Do we?
Okay, what?
So something that is shiny is you can see yourself in it.
Like gold is shiny.
Or silver is shiny.
Or if you look in the back of a CD, it's shiny.
So the light bounces off things that are shiny.
Now, getting into more hairstyle vocabulary, he wanted to make sure that his sideburns
were even.
Sideburns.
So sideburns.
Well, sideburns are things that men have, right?
Women don't have sideburns.
So sideburns are the hair that grows on your cheeks near your ears.
Those are your sideburns.
And now also, the hair stylist suggested that he should let his hair grow out.
Grow out.
Let your hair grow out.
Let your hair get longer.
So you can say, let your hair grow.
But I guess it's more common to hear, let your hair grow out.
Well, maybe it just means something a little bit different.
If I let my hair grow, I might let it grow a little bit.
It might get a little bit longer.
But if I let my hair grow out, maybe it's short now and I'll let it get really long.
So to let your hair grow out is to really change the length.
So let your hair grow out.
And our last word on language takeaway today, afro.
Afro.
So if this guy let his curly hair grow out, he would have an afro.
An afro, right?
So now this hairstyle was very popular in the seventies.
It's like a big, round, curly, fluffy ball of hair.
So that's an afro.
We'll post some pictures on the website for you to get a clear idea of what this looks
like.
So I think now we are ready to listen to our dialogue for the second time, and then we'll
come back and look at some phrases.
Um, okay.
Well, I just want to trim.
Um, can you make sure my sideburns are even and you just take a little off the top?
You're going to be my masterpiece.
So we have some phrases here that you might hear in a hair salon or in a barber shop.
So why don't we look at those now in Fluency Builder.
The hairstylist said, don't just stand there.
So this is an interesting phrase, Marco.
I mean, it's made up of really simple words, right?
But actually those words make it in order that's a little bit different.
So why don't we hear a few examples to help us understand how to use this phrase.
Help me take these boxes into the house.
The house is on fire.
Call the fire department.
Don't just stand there in the rain.
Come inside.
So basically we can understand that if somebody tells you don't just stand there, they are
expecting you to do something.
We might use this phrase when somebody is not doing what we think they should do.
When action is required.
So why don't we move on to our next phrase now?
Look like a million bucks.
You look like a million bucks.
So when someone looks like a million bucks, they look really, really good.
So that is a very common way of just saying you look very good.
Or something looks like a million bucks.
So it can be for a person or a thing, right?
And our final phrase.
And this one is really common in barber shops.
Take a little off the top.
So that basically means cut a little bit on top.
And now can I say take a little off the sides?
You can say that as well.
So take a little off the top.
Take a little off the sides.
So with all this great hair cutting language, why don't we listen to our dialogue one last
time?
So silky, so shiny.
Can you make sure my sideburns are even and you just take a little off the top?
All right, so now talking about hairstyles and different types of hair, there are some
interesting ones that maybe aren't so fashionable anymore, right?
Actually, English has a lot of really cool words to describe haircuts.
So let's start with a couple of them.
For example, a mullet.
A mullet.
So this is when your hair is really short on top and really long in the back.
So the sides and the top are really short, but the back, you have long hair.
In Canada, we call that a shorty shorty long back.
Shorty shorty long back.
We also call it hockey hair.
Hockey hair.
Or even all business up front, all party behind.
Well, Canadians are obviously very into this hairstyle.
It's unfortunately true.
We also have, for example, a mohawk.
Popular amongst the punk rock kids.
So you shave your head on the sides, but you leave a little like stripe of long hair on
top.
Of sticking up long hair.
And that's a mohawk.
What about a flat top?
Oh, popular with law enforcement agents and serial killers.
So basically it's short hair on the sides.
And short and flat hair on the top.
So your hair...
Kind of looks like a box.
Like a box haircut.
I do not have a flat top for all of you out there.
But I did used to have a crew cut.
Oh, crew cut.
A crew cut.
Like an army haircut.
So very short on the sides and a little bit long on top.
And our last one, my actual personal least favorite haircut.
Dreadlocks.
So dreadlocks are like knots of hair, right?
Like you haven't washed your hair in about seven years.
Those are dreadlocks.
Very popular among Rastafarian.
Or like young hippie kids.
Hippies, right?
So what about in your countries?
What different hairstyles are popular there?
I know that Japanese hairstyles are really cool.
Japanese haircuts can be pretty awesome.
So tell us all about it.
Come to our website.
Post some pictures.
And also if you have any questions or doubts, let us know.
Well, thanks for downloading this lesson, you guys.
And today we're bringing you the next part of our suspense series, The New Guy in Town.
So we know that Armando wasn't really a vampire, that he was just acting.
And the women aren't quite what they seem in this dialogue.
In the last one, something happened and she transformed into some sort of, I don't know,
creature, right?
Like monster.
So now let's see what happens.
So we're not going to preview any vocabulary this time.
Let's just listen to the dialogue and see what happens.
What the heck is going on?
What was that thing?
I'm just glad we made it out.
Look, there's a police car.
Please, please stop!
Howdy, ma'am.
Is this man bothering you?
Officer, officer.
There is like a witch creature back there.
We tied her up, but she broke free and she was about to have us for dinner.
Okay, calm down.
Let me see your eyes, please.
Have you been drinking tonight, son?
We're telling the truth.
She's in there.
We suspected her being a kidnapper or a rapist, but it turns out she's an alien or something.
Are you going to help us out or not?
Let's go have a look, shall we?
Is anyone in there?
She might be hiding.
It's perfectly safe.
There isn't anyone.
I don't think things are turning out very well for our housewives and Armand.
Apparently, the police officer is not going to make it to the next episode.
So, we saw some really great vocabulary and even though it's kind of a scary story, there
is a lot of things we can learn.
Well, we're going to look at five words and phrases here and the first one, they described
this woman as a kind of creature.
Creature.
So, what exactly is a creature?
Well, a creature can be any animal.
Any animal?
Yeah, like from a mouse to a bird to an insect or a bug.
So I can say a bird is a flying creature.
You can also use it to mean an unknown and scary animal.
So there's a creature under my bed.
Or some type of creature was attacking me.
So, a creature can be any sort of living thing or animal.
What about our next one?
Well, the creature broke free from some ropes.
So, to break free.
Break free.
When you break free, you escape from something that stops you moving.
So, you have the ability to move again.
You break free from maybe ropes.
Or chains.
Or even a relationship.
So, I can say, oh, I finally broke free from that awful relationship.
Now, that's quite interesting the way we can use this in different ways.
So why don't we take a look at some examples now?
Somebody tied up the dog, but he is trying to break free.
I'm glad that I broke free from that horrible relationship.
I want to break free from all my daily responsibilities.
So break free, it's clear now.
So why don't we move on to our next word?
They thought that maybe this creature was a kidnapper.
Kidnapper.
So this is?
A criminal.
So, a kidnapper is a criminal.
And what exactly does a kidnapper do?
A kidnapper takes someone to a place and keeps them there against their will.
Against their will.
With force or violence.
So, I guess that makes sense, right?
Because the word has kid in it.
So, it can take children.
But it can be also, you can kidnap an adult.
So, this word can actually be used in three different ways.
So we saw a kidnapper, right?
Okay, that is the person.
And the verb, to kidnap.
Or a noun describing an action, a kidnapping.
A kidnapping.
Yeah, a kidnapping took place today.
So, very interesting word.
And of course, it's illegal to be a kidnapper.
But this word is also very serious and it's also a crime, right?
A rapist.
So, that is a person that...
Who forces someone to have sex.
So, again, against their will.
Like a kidnapper.
And the verb would be...
To rape.
To rape someone.
So, on the lighter side, we heard the police officer say something in a very strange way.
He said, let me see your eyes, please.
And this is an interesting phrase.
It's a sound made from pushing two words together.
So, let me.
Why don't we hear a few more examples of this and see if we can figure out what are the
two words.
Let me have a look inside the car.
Let me go out tonight, dad.
Let me think about it and I'll give you an answer tomorrow.
So, basically, let me is...
Let me.
Let me have that pen.
Now, we do this also with other words, right?
Another example would be give me.
Give me.
So, an interesting thing.
It's not proper English, right?
You wouldn't really write it this way.
Or find it in the dictionary.
But it's really common when people speak.
And actually, it's more likely that you'll say let me, give me, than let me, give me.
So, I think now it's time for us to listen to our dialogue for the second time.
And then we'll come back and look at some other phrases that we saw in our dialogue.
Please stop.
Officer!
We tied her up, but she broke free.
And she was about to have us for dinner.
We are telling the truth.
We suspected her of being a kidnapper or rapist, but it turns out she's an alien or something.
Are you going to help us or not?
Is anyone in here?
We're going to look at two phrases now in Fluency Builder that you might hear when you're
talking about a crime.
So the first phrase that we're going to look at is, what the heck is going on?
So this is just asking what's happening, right?
So this is a very strong way of saying what's happening.
What really is happening?
Now, why do they say, what the heck?
What is heck?
Well, heck is sort of a polite way of saying hell.
So instead of saying, what the hell is going on?
Now, why do you do this?
Because especially in American English, we don't like to talk about religious words.
So like hell and God and Jesus, these things are impolite in American English.
You don't want to offend anyone.
That's why we would have other words like, oh my gosh.
For oh my God.
Or geez.
Instead of Jesus.
So that is an interesting thing and of course, it is a little bit of a sensitive topic among
some people.
So that's why it's better to just use these synonyms.
And what about our next phrase?
So they suspected her of being a kidnapper.
So suspected her of being a kidnapper.
So I suspect someone of being something.
So I suspect she is an alien.
I suspect him of being a liar.
So what about to suspect?
To think something that is true, but not be 100% sure.
So you can say, I think she is a kidnapper.
Oh, I suspect her of being a kidnapper.
Why don't we hear a few more examples?
The police suspected him of being a bank robber.
We suspect our dog is responsible for this mess.
The neighborhood suspected that our neighbor was selling drugs.
So we've seen a lot of vocab.
We've seen these phrases.
So I think it's time for us to listen to our dialogue for the last time, and then we'll
come back and talk a little bit more.
What, uh, seems to be the problem?
There is, like, a witch creature back there.
We tied her up, but she broke free, and she was about to have us for dinner.
Okay, calm down, calm down.
We suspected her being a kidnapper or a rapist, but turns out she's an alien or something.
Ugh, seriously.
Be careful!
She might be hiding!
You're mil Taking too long.
Okay, well, Marco, we're coming near the end of this series, aren't we?
Yes, exactly.
It's a short series, but what do you think happens or how do you think the series ends?
What is really going on?
A mystery here at EnglishPod.
So we want to hear from you.
What do you think is going to happen?
You can find it at EnglishPod.com where you can leave us your questions, your comments,
or even maybe your ideas, not only for this lesson, but for any lesson that you would
like to hear.
Well, guys, we're happy that you downloaded this lesson and remember to check out our
website.
Until next time, thanks for listening and goodbye.
And today we're going to be getting money.
We're going to have a lesson about the ATM.
The ATM or?
Automatic Teller Machine.
Okay, that's what it stands for, ATM.
So we're going to be looking at the language that you'll probably find in an ATM maybe
in the United States or in English speaking country.
But before we begin, why don't we look at some vocabulary that we'll hear in the dialogue.
As we mentioned, the ATM or Automatic Teller Machine is a machine where you get your money,
And also, well, some people are in different places, they may call it the bank machine.
Yeah, or maybe the cash machine.
Or just a money machine or something.
So ATM.
ATM.
And now let's take a look at our next word.
Local Authorities.
The Local Authorities.
So what are the Local Authorities?
Well, basically, it's the police.
The police.
Why do you say local authorities?
Okay, well, authority is the person in charge, right?
The boss.
So the local authorities are basically the people who are the boss of this place.
In that area.
So the police.
The local authorities.
So why don't we start now with our dialogue?
Why are we talking about local authorities and ATM machines?
We got to listen to find out.
Stupid girl making me spend so much money.
Now I have to get it from the ATM.
Hello, welcome to Universal Bank.
Please insert your card into the slot.
I know where to put my card.
Stupid machine talking to me like I'm an idiot.
Please input your six digit PIN code followed by the pound key.
Please select an option.
You have selected withdraw.
Yeah, yeah, I know what I selected.
Just give me my money.
Please type the amount you would like to withdraw.
You want to transfer.
10,000 US dollars to the World Wildlife Foundation.
If this is correct, please press one.
No, no, stupid machine.
Confirmed.
Thank you for using our bank.
Please remove your card from the slot.
No way.
Give me my money.
Danger.
The exits have been sealed and the doors will remain locked until the local authorities
arrive.
Have a nice day.
So it's not his day today.
I think he was very unlucky and maybe he's going to be in trouble.
And he was on a date.
This is probably one of the worst things that can happen to a guy when he's on a date.
So well, we saw some of the language that was related to an ATM, money and banking.
So why don't we take a look at that now in Language Takeaway.
So the guy had to insert his card into the slot.
So slot.
Slot.
And that is an opening, right?
Or a type of hole maybe.
It's a hole that is usually long.
Long and it's like a rectangular hole.
A slot is never a circle.
So for example, when you get mail, the mailman will put it into your mailbox through the
slot.
And now that he put his card into the slot, he had to input a six digit pin code.
Want to just do both together?
Digit and pin code?
So a six digit pin code.
Now we have two words here that are new.
Digit.
Digit is basically a number between zero and nine.
So any number between zero and nine is considered a digit.
So 100 is made up of three digits.
Three digits.
And what about pin code?
A pin code is your secret number that you use to take money out.
Now why wouldn't we say password?
Password is usually letters.
And pin code is numbers.
He had to input his six digit pin code and then after that, he had to press the pound
key.
Pound key.
Now this is strange.
A pound key.
What is that?
Well, you know on a phone, on the bottom right, there's a key or a button that looks like
a number sign.
Number sign.
So kind of like two vertical lines and two horizontal lines.
Two lines going up and down, two lines going across.
So that's called the pound key.
What about the other one?
It's called the star.
The star.
Star key.
The star key.
So he's got the pin code after the pound key.
Now he's ready to withdraw money.
So we heard withdraw.
So withdraw is?
Is a noun.
It's the action of taking money out.
A withdrawal.
And to withdraw.
To withdraw is just the verb.
To take out money, right?
So we have the noun and the verb.
The only difference is an L at the end.
So withdraw noun and withdraw verb.
And well, he wanted to withdraw money, but something happened with the ATM and it turned
out that he was going to transfer money.
So transfer.
Transfer.
When you transfer money, you take it from one place and put it in another.
And usually in banking, when you transfer money, you don't really see it, right?
It's all electronic.
So you just put it from one bank account to another, but you never actually see this money.
So you transfer money.
And now this one also has a verb and a noun, right?
A transfer.
And to transfer.
Same word.
So why don't we listen to our dialogue for the second time.
It's going to be slowed down a little bit, and then we'll come back and look at some
Welcome to Universal Bank.
I know what I selected.
$10,000.
The World Wildlife Foundation.
Stupid machine, what are you doing?
Okay, so that was a little easier to understand.
But Marco, there's some interesting phrases here, some instructions that you commonly
read or hear when you're using a bank machine.
So why don't we take a look at these phrases in Fluency Builder.
Well, the bank machine told this guy to insert your card.
Insert your card.
So this verb, to insert, to place inside.
So what else can we insert?
Well, for example, commonly you insert a disc.
Yeah, in your computer.
In your computer, right?
Or you insert a CD into your CD player.
Or DVD into your DVD player.
So to insert something, to put inside.
So he had to insert his card into the slot.
And then the bank machine asked him to select an option.
Select an option.
Now this is a very common phrase that you will not only see in ATMs, but basically everywhere,
On computers or the internet or many, many things where you're dealing with machines.
So it's an order that says, well, select one of these choices that you have.
Make a choice.
So two simple phrases, but very useful and also very high frequency, right?
When you use phrases like these two, it sounds quite professional, doesn't it?
A little bit formal.
So why don't we listen to our dialogue for the last time and then we'll come back and
talk a little bit more.
You want to transfer $10,000 to the World Wildlife Foundation.
Stupid machine.
All right, Erica, so what about you?
Have you ever had any problems with the ATM?
I've had more problems than I can count.
Well, I think in the last two years, I've probably lost about seven bank cards in an
You forget it in the slot?
I leave it in the slot and then walk away from the bank machine and no bank cards.
Well, I think now the ATMs, because this is a common problem, now they have like a little
alarm that when you take out your money and everything, it just starts beeping and beeping
until you take out your card.
And I like the bank machines that actually give you your card first and then give you
your money.
Because if they give me my money first, that's all I want, right?
So I run away with my money and leave my card in the bank machine.
I think that's a good idea.
I've never seen it before, though.
In Switzerland, they have them like that.
In Switzerland.
And I think it's the ATMs that you only have to swipe your card.
I've done that as well and also ruined a bank card with that.
I swiped it too many times, put in the wrong pin code and...
It blocks your card.
Terrible.
Well, what about you guys?
I'm sure everyone has some experience or some inconvenience with ATM machines.
You can also find lots more resources on our website to help you learn English.
So check it out.
And until next time, goodbye!
And where are we going today, Erika?
To the pharmacy.
All right, to the pharmacy or drugstore?
Or also in British English, sometimes people say the chemist.
So as you know, at the pharmacy you get medicine, but there are certain vocabulary words that
are related to this place that we need to learn.
And then some vocabulary about medicine and also some interesting phrases.
So before we listen to the dialogue, let's take a look at vocabulary preview.
We're going to look at two words today that you'll hear in the dialogue.
And the first one, milligrams.
Milligrams.
Also, the abbreviation for this is MG.
So a milligram is?
A hundredth of a gram.
So there are 100 milligrams in a gram.
And it's very common to be used with medicine, right?
We buy medicine in milligrams.
And what's our next word?
Price check.
A price check.
So at the pharmacy or at the supermarket, sometimes the cashier will ask for a price
check.
And that is the action of checking to find out the price.
So a price check.
With this, I think we're ready now to listen to our dialogue for the first time.
And let's see what our shopper is buying at the pharmacy.
Hello, sir.
How can I help you?
I need this prescription, please.
So 50 milligrams of Prozac.
Would you prefer this in capsule or tablet?
Capsules are fine.
You should take one capsule three times a day.
Be sure not to take it on an empty stomach and also don't ever mix it with alcohol.
Yes, I know.
It's not the first time I'm taking this.
I won't overdose.
Anything else I can get you?
I almost forgot.
Can I also get some eye drops and some condoms?
Darn, condoms aren't registered in our system.
Oh, well, that's okay.
I'll get some later.
Thanks.
Really, it's no problem.
Just hang on there a sec.
Can I get a price check on Funtime's ribbed condoms, please?
How embarrassing.
A little bit embarrassing that she asked for a price check on these condoms, right?
It seems like every time you have to buy something embarrassing at the pharmacy, there's a million
people watching you.
It never fails.
Well, let's take a look at some of those words that we were talking about related to medicine
Well, the first word, a prescription.
So what is a prescription?
Well, a prescription is a note from your doctor explaining what medicine you need.
So this note from your doctor is necessary to buy that medicine, right?
Well, this shopper was getting some medicine and, well, the chemist or the pharmacist asked
if he wanted it in capsules or tablets.
So let's look at those two words.
A capsule.
Capsule.
Now, a capsule is like a small tube, right?
It's a form of a pill.
And it's shaped like a tube with the medicine inside.
Inside.
Inside, inside inside, in plastic, right?
Now, you swallow the capsule.
And the tablet?
Is like a pill that is round and flat.
So tablet and capsule.
Both are the same thing basically, but just different presentations.
Different shapes.
It's easier maybe for some people to swallow a capsule.
Well, like-
Because sometimes tablets are a little bit like big circles and it's hard to swallow.
And I guess capsules are smoother.
But we're not pharmacists, so let's move on and focus on the language, which is what
we do know about.
So the pharmacist warned the patient not to take too much medicine, right?
Because he might overdose.
Overdose.
Okay, so to overdose, like you said...
Is to take too much medicine and get really sick or even die.
So if you overdose on medicine, it could be bad for you instead of good.
Well, obviously very bad.
And what about our last word for today?
Well, the shopper also asked for some eye drops.
Eye drops.
So this is medicine for your eyes.
Yeah, usually liquid, like water that you put in your eyes.
So I think now with this medicine language clear, we can listen to our dialogue again,
but it's going to be slowed down a little bit.
It'll help us understand these phrases just a little bit better.
Yes, I need this prescription, please.
So, 50 milligrams of Prozac.
Be sure not to take it on an empty stomach.
And also, don't ever mix it with alcohol.
Can I get some eye drops and some condoms?
Darn condoms aren't registered in our system.
Okay, so now it's time for us to take a look at some of the phrases that we saw in this
dialogue in Putting It Together.
We're going to look at two phrases here and we're going to see how we can use them in
different situations.
The pharmacist warned, be sure not to take it on an empty stomach.
Okay, so be sure not to.
Be sure not to.
What does he mean by this?
He just means don't do this.
So don't take the medicine without eating.
We can mix it up a little bit.
Why don't we listen to some examples of how we can use this in different situations.
Be sure not to leave your bike outside or it will be stolen.
Be sure not to forget your umbrella.
It's raining today.
I told him to be sure not to do anything stupid, but he did.
So Marco, why should we say be sure not to instead of don't?
I think don't sounds more like an order.
Very direct.
Maybe be sure not to is a little bit softer, a little bit more friendly.
So be sure not to.
Now for our last phrase.
So the pharmacist in the end wanted to check for the price and he said, just hang on there
a sec.
So that's interesting.
Hang on.
Well, hang on.
What does he mean by hang on?
He means wait.
It's an informal way of saying wait.
It's also a little bit more friendly than just saying wait.
And we can change the time a little bit, right?
So we can say hang on a second.
Or hang on a moment.
Hang on a minute.
What about hang on an hour?
Well, maybe if you're telling someone to wait for an hour, just hang on there for an hour.
I'll be there soon.
But I guess it's more common hang on a minute.
Maybe for shorter periods of time.
So with these phrases, I think now we can use them in different circumstances, obviously
not only in the pharmacy.
But let's listen to our dialogue for the last time.
Hello sir.
Can I get a price check on Funtimes Ribbed Condoms, please?
So with medicine, an interesting thing comes up, right?
A lot of people think that you eat medicine.
Or drink medicine?
But in English, you always take medicine.
Always take medicine.
So you never can say, oh, I ate my medicine yesterday.
It always has to be, I took my medicine.
So you take the capsules.
Or take the tablets.
So you take medicine.
Now, an interesting thing in the United States, for example, it's very hard to get medicine
without a prescription.
So we always talk about prescription medicine and OTC medicine or over-the-counter medicine.
So over-the-counter medicine is?
Is medicine you can just buy without that prescription or note from your doctor.
So for example, if you have a headache, you can go to the pharmacy and buy aspirin.
And that's over-the-counter medicine.
But prescription medicine, you can't get it without the doctor's note.
And like you said, in America, you almost have to have a prescription for everything.
Which is strange because people can overdose on aspirin.
So tell us how medicine and pharmacies work in your countries.
And also if you have questions or comments, our website, EnglishPod.com is always open
and ready for you.
So thanks for downloading this lesson, you guys.
We'll see you guys out there.
And today we're bringing you another lesson on our sports series.
We're talking about baseball today.
Baseball, the American national pastime.
Is it?
Yes, it is.
So we're going to be looking at this interesting sport that is played mainly in the Caribbean
and well, it's actually very popular in the United States and Japan.
Korea.
And we're going to learn a bunch of baseball language, but we're also going to see how
baseball has a big influence on English in general.
So we're going to learn a lot of great things today.
So why don't we start and listen to our dialogue?
Hello baseball fans and welcome back to today's game.
My name is Rick Fields and of course I am here once again with the man that seals the
deal Bob Copeland.
It's a beautiful day to see two world-class teams face each other and fight for their
right to be called champions.
Well, the national anthem has just been sung and the umpire has started the game.
It's time to play ball.
Roger Vargas is up at bat.
Pitcher winds up and strike one.
Very nice curve ball by the pitcher.
The catcher gives him the sign.
He winds up and Vargas gets a line drive.
The players are scrambling to get the ball.
Vargas gets to first base and he's still going.
The outfielder throws it to second.
Vargas slides.
He's safe.
Great play.
We have a runner on third and up at bat is Brian Okami.
There's the pitch.
He hits it.
It's going, going.
That ball is gone.
Home run by Okami.
That puts this team ahead by two as we are at the bottom of the fifth inning here at
Ritchie Stadium.
Well, a pretty exciting game there at Ritchie Stadium.
And we have some interesting players, Roger Vargas and Brian Okami.
So well, we saw some great words and well, it's time for us to take a look at them now
We're going to look at some common sports and baseball words here.
Now, the first phrase, we'll hear this almost at any sort of international sports event,
And it's the national anthem.
National anthem.
So, this is a song, right?
It's the song that you sing about your country and many people confuse it, right?
A lot of people might say national hymn.
Because in some languages, it might be like a hymn, like literally translating.
But in English, it's called the national anthem.
The national anthem.
So, what about our next word?
Well, we were talking about the pitcher.
Pitcher.
P-I-T-C-H-E-R.
The pitcher.
And now, this is one of the players on the baseball team and his job is to?
To throw the ball.
To throw the ball really fast.
So that the guy can hit it with the bat.
So, that's the pitcher.
Now, the interesting thing is that the baseball commentator said the pitcher winds up.
Winds up.
To wind up.
Well, let me paint you a picture.
So, imagine a clock.
And you're turning, turning, and turning the clock to wind it up, to get it ready to go.
To make it work.
And the pitcher is doing the same sort of thing, bringing his arm back behind him, getting
ready to throw the ball.
So, that is to wind up.
So, you can use this word not only in baseball, but for other things that require you to do
this action.
To turn something and get it ready to have lots of power.
Like some toys.
Or maybe like a music box.
Wind up.
Well, Roger Vargas hit a line drive.
Line drive.
So, what is a line drive?
Well, it's a term from baseball.
And when you hit a line drive, you hit the ball sort of low on towards the ground, and
it travels along the outside of the field.
So, the ball basically travels along the foul line.
That white line.
The white line.
So, that's a line drive.
And so, the players on the field were scrambling to get the ball.
Scrambling.
Now, we know scrambled eggs from one of our lessons.
But the verb to scramble means to move quickly in a disorganized way to do something.
So, the players are moving very fast, trying to get the ball, but they're not doing it
very well.
And you can use this in other ways, right?
Not just in baseball.
For example, we can say, the people are scrambling to buy their tickets for the concert.
Or, I'm going on vacation tomorrow and I'm scrambling to get everything ready.
It's a very good term that you can use also in your daily life.
And what about our last word for today on Language Takeaway?
Well, they were in the fifth inning of the game.
So, inning.
Inning.
This is another baseball term.
And it just means the period of play.
So, we learned, for example, that in soccer you have two halves.
Or, in hockey, you have three periods.
And in baseball, you have nine innings.
So, some interesting sports and baseball vocabulary.
Now, I think it'll help us to hear this again slower.
Hello, baseball fans, and welcome back to today's game.
My name is Rick Fields, and of course, I am here once again with the man that seals the
deal, Bob Copeland.
Well, the national anthem has just been sung, and the umpire has started the game.
The pitcher winds up and strike one.
A very nice curveball by the pitcher.
He winds up, and Vargas gets a line drive.
Vargas gets to first base, and he's still going.
We have a runner on third, and up at bat is Brian Okami.
That puts this team ahead by two, as we are at the bottom of the fifth inning here at
All right, so as we said, there are a lot of English terms that come from baseball,
but we use them in business context or in your daily life, right?
Yeah, why don't we look at those now in Fluency Builder.
All right, so the first phrase that we have is, up to bat.
Up to bat.
So literally, in this dialogue, it means the guy is standing on home plate, ready to hit
the ball, right?
He has the bat, and he's ready to hit it.
But what about in other contexts?
So for example, you can be at a meeting, and maybe it's your turn to talk.
So you're up to bat.
So exactly.
Your boss will say, okay, Erica, you're up to bat.
Okay, so it means sort of like it's your turn.
It's your turn.
All right, so that's another term that is used in baseball, but very commonly used in
other circumstances.
So we also saw in the dialogue that Roger Vegas, he hit the ball, but he missed, and
that was strike one.
Strike one.
So in baseball, you have three strikes.
Three tries.
Three tries before you're out.
And so now, the same thing happens in daily life.
So if someone says, that was strike one.
It means you made the first mistake.
And if you make two more, you will be fired, for example.
Or maybe your parents will say, okay, that wasn't nice.
And then two more times, and you'll have a timeout.
Or you'll be grounded.
Okay, so that's also called a strike.
And the pitcher threw a curve ball.
A curve ball.
Curve ball.
So, okay, pretty clear.
A curve ball is when you throw the ball, and it sort of goes in a curve.
It doesn't go straight, right?
But how can this be used outside of baseball?
So you can say, oh, my boss threw me a curve ball today.
So he gave you an unexpected problem.
Or something that was difficult to handle.
This one is pretty interesting.
We'd like to hear a few more examples.
My boss threw me a curve ball today, so I have to stay and work late.
It was a huge curve ball when she asked me how many kids I wanted to have.
How am I supposed to know?
All right, so that's basically a curve ball.
You can say an unexpected problem or situation.
And our last phrase, and probably one that you already know, home run.
A home run.
From baseball, we know that that's when you hit the ball really far.
And you hit it outside of the playing area, outside the park.
And now if you use it in a business context or in your daily life.
It means something similar.
Why don't we take a listen to the examples and see if we can figure it out.
Great job on that sales presentation.
You really hit a home run.
Our sales team hit a home run this month by doubling our revenue.
Okay, so basically a home run is a success.
A victory.
Yeah, something, a big accomplishment.
So we've seen a lot of these great phrases.
And as you can see, a lot of them from baseball are used in your daily life.
And there are many, many more.
Okay, well, why don't we hear them again in the baseball context.
And we'll listen to the dialogue one more time.
It's a beautiful day to see two world class teams face each other and fight for their
So an interesting dialogue, a very interesting sport.
And well, personally, I never played this as a child.
Me neither, really.
I don't really like it too much, but it is kind of fun to go to a game and especially
in the United States, have those hot dogs and all that.
OK, yeah.
Well, a cultural event, a really important piece of American culture.
So, well, we encourage you to come to our website, EnglishPod.com.
Tell us what you think.
And also, of course, if you have questions or doubts, be sure to tell us.
If you have any other sort of baseball related phrases, let us know about them on the website.
OK, so we'll see you guys there.
Thanks for downloading.
And today we have a special lesson for all of you who are looking for a new apartment
or house.
Or even if you're not looking for an apartment, this lesson will be useful because it can
help you describe what your current apartment or house looks like.
So we're going to be describing an apartment and other vocabulary related to apartment
hunting.
Let's take a look at some of the first words that we have in Vocabulary Preview.
We're going to hear these two words in the dialogue.
The first one is landlord.
Landlord.
So who is a landlord or what is a landlord?
Well it's pretty simple.
A landlord is the person who owns the house.
Or apartment.
So the owner of the house.
And the landlord rents out the apartment to the tenants.
Tenants.
So the tenants are the people that are renting the apartment or house.
Two important words that we'll find in the dialogue.
Tenants and landlord.
So why don't we take a listen to the dialogue now and we'll hear as a couple is checking
out a new apartment.
We are the Christiansons.
We're here to see the apartment.
Oh hi.
Well as you can see the place has just been renovated.
The previous tenants left a huge mess here so the landlord has redone everything.
It looks great.
It's so bright and airy.
What great light.
I really love these hardwood floors.
What's the square footage of this place?
Well it's about 120 square meters or 1300 square feet more or less.
Oh the landlord has also installed new kitchen appliances.
There's a new dishwasher and a professional grade gas range.
Really at this price this place is an amazing deal.
I love it.
But wait.
What are the payment terms?
First and last month rent as deposit and rent is due on the first of every month.
Considering the amount of money invested into the apartment it's a very good deal.
Yes it is.
Too good to be true.
The living room and dining room are quite spacious as you can see and down this hall
here's the master bedroom.
It has a huge walk in closet and an en suite bathroom.
We can't go in there yet as the police, I mean the clean up crew hasn't finished yet.
What's in here?
Alright so apparently the apartment was too good to be true.
Yeah I don't think that's exactly what they were expecting to find in the bathroom.
Okay well we did find a lot of great words and phrases so why don't we take a look at
that now in Language Takeaway.
We're just gonna look at a bunch of vocabulary items related to apartments and house hunting.
So we've got a lot to cover here so let's get started with the first one.
Renovated.
Okay so the verb to renovate.
Great word and I think some examples will help us understand the meaning.
I had to renovate my kitchen because I accidentally burned everything while cooking.
The city recently renovated the ceiling of the local church.
John is planning on renovating his nightclub so as to make it more modern.
Okay so basically to renovate means to make new again.
Right, when you renovate a house or an apartment you take everything down and build it back
up again.
Okay so it's usually only used for buildings, for apartments, for houses.
Or offices.
You don't say you renovate your computer.
Yep and also when you just do something really simple like change the paint color, that's
not a renovation.
That's redecoration.
When you renovate you have to like you know use a hammer and saw and lots of tools.
Change a lot.
Okay so the apartment was newly renovated and it was bright and airy.
Airy.
Alright so airy, well I guess we understand the word air, right?
So if an apartment or something is airy.
It has lots of space.
Lots of place to move around.
Okay so it's wide, it's...
It's open.
It's open, okay.
An open apartment.
Now for our next word, an important question she asked for the square footage.
Square footage.
The square footage of the apartment.
Okay so we know square foot, right?
So feet like a measure of space.
The square footage is just basically the area, how big.
Okay so why don't we listen to some examples of how we can use these two words square footage
in a sentence.
As a civil engineer I have to calculate the square footage of the construction site.
Robert is worried that the square footage of this land is not big enough.
If you multiply the width of the room by the length you will have the square footage of
the room.
Those are some great examples and I find this, the ending of this word, edge, footage, it's
interesting isn't it?
Yeah I guess you can only use it with the imperial system.
So you can also say tonnage, so how big, how heavy, or mileage.
But you can't say, for example in meters, you wouldn't say meterage.
No you can't say that.
So it's not for the metric system, it's only for some units of measurement in the imperial
system.
Alright so after we've measured the square footage of the apartment, we saw that they
had new appliances.
Appliances.
Appliance.
So kitchen appliances, what are those?
Machines that do stuff in the kitchen.
Alright so a blender, a stove, a microwave.
Or I can say electric appliances.
So like your TV, an iron, a vacuum cleaner.
Okay, so appliance can be any type of machine that's used.
In a house.
And well one of these appliances was a professional grade gas range.
Okay this is a great phrase and I want to break it down.
So a gas range, now this is basically a stove, right?
That uses gas instead of electricity.
So I can have an electric range.
And professional grade, this is something that's really high quality.
So if it's high quality, why do we say it's professional grade?
Because it's so good that professionals use it.
Okay, so can I only have professional grade kitchen appliances?
You can have a professional grade anything, like a professional grade carpet for example.
Okay, or a professional grade pickup truck.
Or you can even change this a little bit and say industrial grade.
So after we've seen all the appliances, they describe the house as spacious.
Spacious.
The house is very spacious.
Pretty easy.
We know the word space here, right?
So obviously this means lots of space.
So I guess maybe spacious and airy are a little bit similar, right?
And of course, once we were in the master bedroom, we saw that they had a walk-in closet.
A walk-in closet.
Walk-in closet.
Right, so this is very easy.
I guess walk-in.
You can walk into it.
And so it's a huge closet, right?
Now just a note on the spelling here.
Walk-in or hyphenated.
And apart from this beautiful closet, we had an en suite bathroom.
En suite bathroom.
Another note on the spelling here.
It's E-N.
Hyphen.
S-U-I-T-E.
So even though it's E-N, we pronounce it like an O-N.
En suite.
So an en suite bathroom is a bathroom inside the room.
Okay, inside the master bedroom.
So a lot of great words describing the apartment and also other aspects of real estate.
So why don't we listen to these one more time in context and we'll see how they fit together
to describe an apartment.
Hi, we are the Christiansons.
Oh, hi.
Well, as you can see, the place has just been renovated.
The previous tenants left a huge mess here, so the landlord has redone everything.
Well, it's about 120 square meters or 1,300 square feet, more or less.
Oh, the landlord has also installed new kitchen appliances.
There's a new dishwasher and a professional-grade gas range.
Really at this price, this place is an amazing deal.
But wait, what are the payment terms?
Considering the amount of money invested into the apartment, it's a very good deal.
The living room and dining room are quite spacious, as you can see.
And down this hall, here's the master bedroom.
It has a huge walk-in closet and an en suite bathroom.
We can't go in there yet as the police, uh, I mean, the cleanup crew hasn't finished yet.
Alright, so this is always kind of difficult to look for a new apartment and to go and
see them.
But it's interesting here, they were renting and they had a real estate agent.
Yeah, um, and actually this is very uncommon in America, isn't it?
Yeah, I guess you don't really use a real estate agent unless you're going to buy a
house or apartment.
So when you're renting, you just go and look by yourself.
You can find ads in the newspaper, on the internet and deal directly with the landlord.
So after you've done your house hunting and found your apartment, um, you got to set up
the payment conditions.
Like we saw in the dialogue, the payment terms were first and last month's rent as deposit.
And that's basically, they'll keep that just in case you damage something in the apartment.
Or have a monster living in your bathroom.
And another thing is that I've noticed in some countries you pay rent in advance.
So in America, you only pay one month's rent at a time, right?
So I guess this is an interesting topic, real estate and apartment hunting and renting is
different in different countries.
So that's where you guys need to come and tell us how is, how does this work in your
country?
You can also use some of the vocabulary in this dialogue to tell us about your apartment.
How many rooms do you have?
Bedrooms, dining rooms?
What's the square footage?
Or how many square meters, right?
So check out our website, EnglishPod.com.
And we'll see you guys there.
Thanks for listening and until next time, goodbye.
And today we're bringing you another sci-fi lesson for all of those fans out there of
Star Trek and Star Wars.
And today we're going to focus on some phrases.
We're not going to do any vocabulary today.
We're just going to learn some phrases that you'll find relating to science fiction.
Okay, very good.
So why don't we listen to a dialogue for the first time and we'll come back and look at
all these phrases.
Captain, we are under attack by an unidentified ship.
Damage report.
We've sustained heavy damages to the engines.
We've lost our warp drive.
We'll have to attempt to make contact.
This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Starship Enterprise.
We don't wish to engage.
What is the nature of this attack?
I am Captain Kor of the ship Kortos, your ship attack that will search party.
No, you're not doing it right.
Kor doesn't sound like that.
His voice is deeper.
I am Captain Kor of the ship Kortos, your ship.
No, if you can't do an authentic Klingon voice, I'll have to find a more serious Star Trek
fan who can actually act, okay?
But, but, I already bought the Klingon suit and the wig and...
All right, very good Star Trek fans.
Apparently, they were trying to act out one of the famous episodes where the Klingons
attack the Enterprise.
My goodness.
I don't know a lot about Star Trek, but I do know a lot about language and we've got
some great stuff here that will help you understand sci-fi movies and TV shows in English a little
So, why don't we go now to Fluency Builder?
All right, so the first phrase that we have today on Fluency Builder, unidentified ship.
An unidentified ship.
Unidentified ship.
If we break it down and look at the first word, unidentified.
Okay, you don't know the identity.
And a ship, I guess that's short for...
A rocket ship.
Or a spaceship.
So, we're not talking boats here.
We're not talking about boats.
So, the next phrase, the Enterprise lost its warp drive.
Warp drive.
So, the warp drive of the Enterprise is actually something like an engine that allows it to
go faster than the speed of light.
So, super fast.
Super fast.
But why warp?
Well, if we take a look at the word warp, that actually means to bend.
So, like when you warp wood, it bends.
You bend wood or you warp metal.
And well, that's kind of the theory behind it is that they're going so fast that they
bend or warp time.
So, warp drive.
I think a very sci-fi specific phrase here.
And for our third phrase today, search party.
Search party.
A search party.
So, what is this?
Are we having a party?
Well, when somebody gets lost, you know, maybe in the woods or something, you send out a
search party to find them.
So, a party would be a group of people.
So, that also happens in restaurants, I think, right?
Sometimes you might say how many people in your party.
In your party.
So, party, group of people.
So, in the dialogue, we saw that actually these were not real Star Trek characters,
but they were just acting.
But it didn't sound quite right, right?
He said that his voice is deeper.
So, a deep voice.
Deep voice.
A deep voice.
We're going to hear an example of what a deep voice sounds like.
The one constant through all the years, Ray, has been baseball.
America has rolled by like an army of steamrollers.
It's been erased like a blackboard, rebuilt and erased again.
That is a deep voice.
Now, because his voice wasn't deep enough, he didn't sound authentic.
Authentic.
So, authentic, very easy word.
Real.
True to life.
True to life, right?
Not fake.
So, Marco, is that an authentic Rolex?
No, it's not.
But thank you for noticing.
So, authentic.
A wig.
W-I-G.
Wig.
So, a wig is pretend hair, right?
Fake hair.
So, the hair is not authentic.
So, a wig.
We've got some great language here.
Why don't we listen to it one more time, slowed down a little bit, in the dialogue.
Captain, we're under attack by an unidentified ship.
This is Captain Picard of the Starship Enterprise.
I am Captain Kor of the ship Clothos.
Your ship attacked our search party.
Your ship.
If you can't do an authentic Klingon voice, I'll have to find a more serious Star Trek
But but, I already bought the Klingon suit and the wig.
Now it's time for us to take a look at more phrases today in Fluency Builder.
So, we've got some phrases here that you can use together with a number of different words,
Absolutely.
So, the first one, we heard that data said we're under attack.
We're under attack.
Under attack.
So, if we're under attack, it means that we are being attacked.
Someone is shooting guns at you or trying to hurt you or something like that.
So, we are under attack.
Very popular phrase that you would hear in war movies or something.
Now, you can change this by changing the last word.
We are under fire.
Under fire, which basically means the same thing.
Yeah, except it, when you're under fire, there are guns involved.
So, they're shooting at you.
We're under fire.
Moving on to our second phrase.
We've sustained heavy damage.
Sustained heavy damage.
So, when you sustain something, you receive it or you undergo this thing.
So, usually, it's related to injury or to receiving some type of...
Of negative thing.
So, why don't we listen to some examples of how we could use sustain in context.
John had a car accident and sustained a fatal injury.
The boxer sustained a severe neck injury in the championship fight.
Luckily, the warship didn't sustain any serious damage.
So, you see, we typically sustain something like an injury or damage that is negative.
And our last phrase for today, what is the nature of this attack?
What is the nature of?
So, basically, he's just asking, why are you doing this?
Why...
What is the reason?
What is the purpose?
So, again, we have some more examples of how you could use what is the nature of in different
What is the nature of your visits to the United States?
What is the nature of the threat against our country?
The nature of my visit is personal.
So, a great phrase you can use not only when you're talking sci-fi, but in everyday life.
So, why don't we listen now to the dialogue for the last time, and then we'll come back
and talk a little bit more.
I am Captain Kor of the ship Kortos.
Your ship...
I don't want to do an authentic Klingon voice.
I'll have to find a more serious Star Trek fan who can actually act, okay?
Well, Marco, I already admitted that I'm not much of a sci-fi fan, and I don't really know
anything about Star Trek or Star Wars.
Well, it is a very popular show.
I think it started around the 60s or 70s.
The first version of Star Trek, and well, many, many people follow it now.
They dress up, they know the secret language that is used on the show, they know the spaceships.
It's a big culture.
That's true, and speaking of culture, I think we've got a Star Trek movie coming out pretty
soon, so some of this language can help you guys understand it a little bit better.
Very good, yeah.
So, if you have any other questions or comments related to, not only to science fiction, but
anything in general, please come to the website EnglishPod.com and leave your questions or
comments.
Well, thanks for downloading, you guys, and until next time, goodbye!
Hello English learners, welcome back to EnglishPod. My name is Marco and I'm Erika.
And today we're looking at some more romance. We're talking about dating.
Dating, exactly. And not only dating but asking someone to become your boyfriend or girlfriend.
Yep, that's true. And so we're going to be focusing on language to express your romantic feelings.
And also maybe some phrases you can use to ask someone out.
Very good. So I'm sure you guys are excited about this one. So let's listen to the dialogue for the first time.
Hey, you're early. Where is everyone?
Well, I told them not to come. I made a reservation just for the two of us.
I thought we could have a quiet evening all to ourselves.
Oh, why?
Jennifer, there's something I want to ask you.
Sure, what is it?
Okay, here's the thing. I've always seen you as more than just a friend. And I can't take it anymore.
I know you better than anyone. I know the pros and cons of your personality.
I even know what side of the bed is yours. I think we would be great together, don't you?
Are you serious? We've been friends for years. We can't just change that overnight.
I know. I never had the guts to tell you. Until today.
So what do you say? Are you willing to give me a shot?
Alright, I wonder, is she going to say yes?
I don't know. She seems a little bit confused.
Well, I guess it's always strange when your best friend suddenly wants to be your boyfriend or girlfriend.
It does happen though. It does happen.
So why don't we take a look at some of the vocabulary that was used in this dialogue to express these feelings.
And let's start with Fluency Builder.
Okay, so we're doing things a little differently today.
We're looking at phrases and not just vocabulary words.
So he used some wonderful phrases to ask her to be his boyfriend.
And he started with this. Here's the thing.
Here's the thing.
Alright, that's a very strange phrase. Here's the thing. Is he giving her something?
Not quite. He's not giving her an object. But he's giving her some information.
Okay, so it's a very common way to start an idea.
You're about to tell the person the main problem or the main piece of information.
So you would start with, here's the thing, and then start explaining.
Okay, why don't we do an example?
For example, you could say, alright, here's the thing. People don't like you.
Alright, well I hope they don't say that to me.
But another example. Marco, here's the thing. We're behind in our podcasting. We have to work overtime.
Okay, so the main idea.
Very good. Moving on to our next phrase.
He said, I can't take it.
I can't take it anymore.
So he can't take it anymore. Take what?
Well, why don't we find out by listening to some examples.
Examples.
The man next door has been so loud. I can't take it anymore.
My boss always yells at me. I can't take it anymore.
I can't take it anymore. I'm going to quit.
Alright, so basically is you can't stand it. You can't tolerate it anymore.
Exactly. This is a phrase we use when we are really frustrated.
Yeah, when we're frustrated or when we just can't handle it anymore.
And well, after he finished his declaration of love, she responded by saying, are you serious?
Are you serious?
Okay, so what does she mean?
She's just saying, really?
Exactly. It's another way of saying, really?
Yeah. So this is a phrase that's really, it's quite informal, isn't it?
Yeah, I guess you wouldn't use it in a business context.
No, and it's also something that's used mostly by younger people.
Right. If you say something that's amazing or that's incredible, hard to believe, you might get this response.
Right. So he is very serious, but he confessed that he never had the guts to tell her.
Have the guts.
I never had the guts to tell you.
I never had the guts.
Alright, so to have guts.
That's to be brave.
To be brave, courageous.
So we have some examples of how we would use guts in different situations, so let's listen.
I don't have the guts to go skydiving.
I don't have the guts to give a speech.
I've never had the guts to say no to my boss.
Alright, so to have the guts to do something.
Hey, but Marco, this word guts, it's an interesting one.
Yes, it is, because guts can also mean your internal organs.
Like your stomach and your intestines and your lungs.
Exactly, those are your guts.
Yep, so when you have guts, you're really brave.
Exactly, you're courageous.
Alright, very good. Why don't we listen to the dialogue for the second time.
We're going to slow it down a little bit, and we'll come back and look at some phrases and putting it together.
Hey, you're early. Where's everyone?
Well, I told them not to come. I made a reservation just for the two of us. I thought we could have a quiet evening all to ourselves.
Okay, here's the thing. I've always seen you as more than just a friend, and I can't take it anymore.
I know you better than anyone. I know the pros and cons of your personality. I even know what side of the bed is yours.
I think we would be great together, don't you?
I know. I've never had the guts to tell you until today. So, what do you say? Are you willing to give me a shot?
I... I...
Alright, that's a little bit clearer this time. But while I was listening, I noticed that there's some more great phrases that you can use together with different words.
So, let's look at those now and putting it together.
Alright, let's take a look at the first one. He said, I made a reservation just for the two of us.
The two of us?
Just the two of us.
So, just the two of us. Quite simply, it means you and me. Just us, right?
Right. Just us. So, why is this phrase important?
I think it's a great way to show the idea of only us, right?
And we can use it together with any number we want.
So, what about the four of us?
Just the four of us. Just the eight of us. So, it suggests the idea of only us.
So, he made the reservation just for the two of us because he thought they could have a quiet evening all to ourselves.
All to ourselves.
If you have something all to yourself or we have something all to ourselves.
We have that thing all alone. We don't have to share it.
We don't share. Very good.
So, I guess you can say, my parents are out of town, so I have the apartment, I have the house all to myself.
Or even, she wants to eat the cake all to herself.
Very good. So, that's a very good phrase.
And you can use it with any pronoun.
Well, so the guy is explaining that I've always seen you as more than just a friend.
I've always seen you as...
So, basically, it's the perception or the way you consider that person.
The way you think about that person.
So, I can say, I've always seen you as a good friend.
I've always seen you as a leader.
Okay, so our last phrase is also the last thing we heard in the dialogue.
He said, are you willing to give me a shot?
Are you willing to give me a shot?
To give me a shot.
Give me a shot.
Alright, I think we have some more examples of how we could use give me a shot in different situations.
So, let's listen.
I know I can do this drawing better. Just give me a shot.
The HR manager wasn't going to hire me, but he decided to give me a shot.
Okay, so when you give someone a shot, you take a chance, right?
Give that person or give an opportunity.
Alright, so we don't know if she will give him a shot or not,
but why don't we listen to the dialogue once more to hear these phrases in action.
I know. I never had the guts to tell you until today.
Uh, uh...
Alright, so an interesting dialogue, and it opens up a cultural point.
That's right. So in the dialogue, I'm going to ask you to give me a shot.
So in the dialogue, the guy was asking her if she would be his girlfriend, right?
Right, but I guess it's not very common, among adults at least, in English-speaking countries.
Yeah, we don't say like, okay, so please will you be my boyfriend now?
Right, right, right. You would do that maybe in high school.
Yeah, but even then I think it's still a little funny.
I think for us, when we start to have romantic relationships, it just sort of happens naturally, right?
You never really have this conversation, will you be my boyfriend?
Right, I guess afterwards you just start talking about other things,
which you just consider that you guys are already boyfriend and girlfriend.
But there's no real... There's no official starting point.
Yeah, there's no official point that says, okay, now we are boyfriend and girlfriend.
Which is interesting because in other countries they do go through the formality of asking somebody to become their boyfriend.
Yeah, but even, you know, like 20 or 30 years ago in English-speaking countries, you would do this.
Oh yeah, of course.
And it was called going steady.
Going steady.
So you would ask, will you go steady with me?
That means let's become a stable couple.
All right, so we want to hear your stories and well, how do you do it in your country?
Do you ask someone out, do you maybe just give them the first kiss and that's an automatic yes?
Well, I don't know, but I'm looking forward to hearing from our listeners.
So guys, check out our website EnglishPod.com.
You can leave your questions and comments there.
All right, we'll see you guys there and until next time.
🎵 music playing 🎵
And today we're going to be taking you to the airport.
We're going to listen as a man checks in at the airport and deals with his luggage.
So we're going to be looking at a lot of great stuff that can help you the next time you
are at the airport at the check-in counter.
So why don't we take a look at one word that we're going to preview today in Vocabulary
Preview.
We're going to hear this guy say, I'd like to check three pieces.
He's going to check three pieces of what?
Pieces of luggage.
So when we talk about luggage, we can say pieces of luggage.
Luggage is a non-count noun.
So you can't say one luggage, two luggages, three luggages.
That's wrong.
So we use pieces of luggage.
He's going to check three pieces of luggage.
We're going to see what happens with this guy at the airport and with his pieces of
luggage.
May I see your passport, please?
Here you go.
Will you be checking any bags today?
I'd like to check three pieces.
Airline policy only allows two pieces of checked luggage at 20 kilograms each plus one piece
of carry-on luggage.
I will have to charge you extra for the additional suitcase.
I'm taking an intercontinental flight.
I'm flying 16,000 kilometers.
How am I supposed to take only two 20 kilo bags?
That's absurd.
There's nothing I can do.
You cannot board the flight with that large bag either.
Carry-on bags must fit in the overhead compartment or under your seat.
That bag is clearly too big.
Now I see.
You charge next to nothing for an international ticket.
When it comes to charging for any other small thing, you charge an arm and a leg.
So tell me, miss, how much will I have to pay for all of this?
$625 US dollars.
That's more than my round-trip ticket!
All right, well, that's a whole lot of money, isn't it?
Well, I think it's a very common situation.
I'm sure many of our listeners can relate to this situation.
Overweight charges are pretty expensive.
Very high.
I know from personal experience.
But that's not what we want to talk about now.
We want to talk about some really useful vocabulary in Language Takeaway.
All right, on Language Takeaway today, we have five words.
So why don't we start with the first one?
So the woman asked, will you be checking any bags today?
To check bags.
So the verb to check.
It means to give your bags to the airline, to register them.
Okay, so that's what happens with your luggage.
You check them, so basically they become responsible for your bags.
It reminds me of checking in to a hotel.
Right, very similar.
When you go to a hotel, you register at the hotel.
You check in.
In this case, you just check your luggage.
You don't check in your luggage.
Okay, so check luggage.
So he wanted to check three pieces of luggage, and he also had carry-on luggage.
Carry-on luggage.
Carry-on.
So carry-on luggage, it's pretty simple.
That's right, you carry it on yourself.
Exactly, you carry it on to the plane.
Now we can talk about carry-on luggage, right?
Or carry-on bag.
Right, or a carry-on suitcase.
A very small suitcase that can fit under your seat.
All right, so carry-on luggage.
Now he was traveling on an intercontinental flight.
Intercontinental.
We have two words there, inter.
Between.
Between, right?
And continental.
So this sounds like continent.
Okay, so he's traveling maybe from Asia to North America.
Okay, intercontinental.
He's trying to board this intercontinental flight.
So to board a flight.
Board a plane.
Board a train.
All right, so basically it means to...
To get on.
To get on a vehicle.
Okay, so I can say board the ship, board the car.
But board the train.
Board the train.
Board the bus.
All aboard.
That's right, that's why in movies you see that somebody will yell all aboard.
In the train station, right?
Okay, so board a vehicle and our last phrase for today, overhead compartment.
Overhead compartment.
All right, let's break this phrase down.
Overhead.
So that's on top of your head, right?
Above you.
Yeah, and the compartment is a place where you can put something and store it.
Kind of like a box.
So overhead compartment, that big box where you put your bags and your purse or whatever
on an airplane.
Very similar to, for example, an overhead projector.
Right, so that's the machine that puts an image or a picture on a wall, like sometimes
you see them in meetings.
Right, so because the image is over your head and it's big, it's called an overhead projector.
Okay, so some great language.
Why don't we hear it again in context by listening to the dialogue for the second time?
Yes, here you go.
Yes, I'd like to check three pieces.
Airline policy allows only two pieces of checked luggage at 20 kilograms each, plus one piece
How am I supposed to take only two 20-kilo bags?
But when it comes to charging for any other small thing, you charge an arm and a leg.
So tell me, miss, how much will I have to pay for all this?
That's more than my round-trip ticket.
So I think it's a little bit more clear now.
And with this, it's time for us to take a look at some great phrases in putting it together.
So this guy was pretty angry about this airline policy.
And he said, how am I supposed to?
How am I supposed to?
So before we get into explaining this, why don't we listen to a couple of examples so
we can try and understand what it means.
How am I supposed to fit the dog in the car?
There are 10 people in there already.
How is she supposed to get to work if her car's in the shop?
How are we supposed to know the answer to that?
It's impossible.
So I can understand that it means, how can I do this?
How do you expect me to do this?
How is it possible for me to do this?
It's a phrase you use when you're frustrated, right?
When you're maybe a little bit frustrated or you're maybe nervous of something that
you can't do or don't know how.
This phrase, it's not impolite, but it sort of gives the idea that you're challenging
the other person a little bit.
So a good phrase that you can use in different situations and you can try and mix it up with
different verbs, right?
Now let's take a look at our next phrase.
So basically, the woman can't help the man, even though he's insisting and he's pushing
that he wants another solution.
So finally, she says, I'm sorry, there's nothing I can do.
So we use this phrase when someone's pushing you too much, right?
And you would use it only in that situation towards the end because it is a little bit...
It's strong.
It's not in plight, but it's just, you're saying, you know what, I'm sorry, there's
Now let's move on to our third phrase.
You charge next to nothing.
Next to nothing.
So we're talking about charging.
We're talking about money.
Why don't we listen to some examples of what this next to nothing phrase means?
Do you like my new house?
It was so cheap that it almost cost next to nothing.
Let's go to Thailand.
Tickets cost next to nothing right now.
The real estate agent charged me next to nothing for his commission, so I got a really good
deal.
So when something costs next to nothing, it's really cheap, right?
It's really cheap, or you consider it to be cheap.
And now for our last phrase, it's the complete opposite of next to nothing.
Charge an arm and a leg.
An arm and a leg.
So this means it's really expensive.
It's so expensive.
It's like giving your arm and your leg.
To pay for it.
So next to nothing, really cheap.
An arm and a leg, really expensive.
Can we look at the use here?
So in the dialogue we heard, you charge an arm and a leg, but we can also say it costs
an arm and a leg.
Because we are referring to money.
So some great phrases here.
Now I think it's time we listen to our dialogue one more time.
625 US dollars.
That's more than my round trip ticket.
So airline policies, luggage, it's always a problem, right?
Most of the time you always end up paying overweight when you travel.
I know that this happened to me once and it was really expensive.
I was flying on an intercontinental flight from India back to Europe and I had too many
extra bags, but I really needed to bring them.
And so it cost me $6,000.
$6,000.
So my credit card was pretty maxed out after that.
That's incredible.
Well, I'm sure many of our users probably suffered similar experiences like this.
So please come to our website and share it with us at EnglishPod.com.
So please check us out and thanks for downloading you guys.
And today we're bringing you the eighth part of our dramatic romantic love story, I'm sorry
That's right, we're coming close to the end of this story, aren't we?
Yeah, we're coming close to the end and we still have a lot of interesting things going
on so I wonder what's going to happen.
Well, I can tell you that today's lesson involves this word which we'll hear in vocabulary preview.
So today we're just going to look at this one word, spy.
A spy.
Spy.
Alright, so we probably know famous spies like James Bond.
Or Austin Powers.
So basically it's a person who is secretly trying to get information.
About a government or maybe a business.
So that's a spy.
Now the verb, to spy.
Same thing, right?
To spy on someone.
To spy on a company.
So why are we talking spies and spying here on EnglishPod?
Why don't we find out by listening to our dialogue.
Hi Steven.
I haven't been completely honest with you, Veronica. I'm sorry. I'm not a fireman. I'm not even from the United States. I'm a spy for the Indian government.
What? Why didn't you tell me before? What are you doing here?
When I was a young boy, I used to play cricket with my father back in my hometown of Hyderabad.
It was a peaceful town, and my father was a renowned chemist. One day he was approached by members of the CIA, claiming that my father had made the discovery of the Millennium in his small lab back at the university, where he taught biochemistry.
I never saw him again. I vowed to discover the whereabouts of my father, and consequently joined the Indian Intelligence Bureau.
What does that have to do with those men shooting at us? And most importantly, why did you lie to me?
I'm sorry. I wasn't supposed to meet you. I wasn't supposed to fall in love with you. But you have to believe me when I tell you that what I feel for you is real.
I can't believe this. Why are all these things happening to me? I can't take it anymore. Let me out of the car.
Veronica, wait!
Alright, so Stephen is not even American. He's an Indian spy.
He's not even a firefighter.
Well, there you go.
Many surprises on this love story.
It gets deeper and deeper.
Well, why don't we take a look at some of the vocabulary that was used in this great story in Language Takeaway.
Language Takeaway
Well, here we've got a lot of language that you can use when you need to be honest about something.
We're going to look at six phrases here. Now, the first one, Stephen says he needs to come clean.
Come clean.
Right, so basically he needs to tell the truth.
He needs to confess.
Confess, right.
About something that he maybe wasn't truthful about in the past.
Yeah, maybe he had a secret or maybe he lied about something.
So, now he's coming clean.
So, he comes clean and he tells the story about his childhood and he says his father was a renowned chemist.
Renowned.
Okay, so if you're a renowned chemist.
You're very famous and well respected.
So, you can use that with people or with places.
A renowned restaurant.
Okay, so very popular, very well known.
We also hear it commonly like this, a world renowned chemist.
A world renowned restaurant.
So, not only popular locally, but the whole world knows about it.
Alright, and so he continues with his story and he says he was approached by members of the CIA.
Approached.
To be approached by.
Okay, so if I am approached by somebody from the CIA, what does that mean?
Well, they come to talk to you about something really important.
Okay, so the verb to approach someone can mean get close to.
Right, to walk up to them or something like that.
Right, but it also carries this meaning of coming to talk to you about something.
Something important.
Something very important.
So, for example, I can say my boss approached me this morning to talk about an important pay raise.
Oh, lucky you. Or maybe Jim approached me to ask if I know if his wife is cheating on him or not.
Wow. Alright, so that's how you would use this verb, approach someone.
Now, let's move on to the next word.
So, he was approached by members of the CIA and they were claiming something about his father.
That's right. So, to claim.
Claim something.
To claim something.
Alright, so basically when you're claiming something, you are saying that it's true.
Right, it might not be true.
But we don't know.
Yep. So, for example, he claims he makes $4 million a year.
Okay, or Bob claims that he saw a UFO.
We can't prove it if it's true or not, but that's what they're saying is true.
So, Stephen's father disappeared and, well, he vowed to discover where he was.
So, Stephen vowed to find his father.
Vow.
To vow.
So, this verb, to vow, means to make a strong promise, right?
And we use it also in marriage, right?
Wedding vows.
Wedding vows, which are basically promises.
So, if you vow something, you make a very strong promise.
Yes, it's very, very bad if you break a vow.
Oh, really? What happens?
I don't know, probably thunder strikes you and you die.
Alright, so don't break your vows.
And the last word on Language Takeaway today, the whereabouts.
The whereabouts.
The whereabouts of his father.
So, the whereabouts is the location.
The location.
Kind of unknown location, right?
Right. I think this is a great word for us to listen to some more examples.
The police don't have any information on the whereabouts of the murderer.
Currently, the whereabouts of the president are unknown.
You live in Toronto too? Whereabouts do you live?
Alright, so whereabouts. Perfect.
You can use it for location, unknown location.
Alright, so some great words.
Now, I want to move on to some phrases that we use a lot in the US.
Some great words. Now, I want to move on to some phrases that we heard in the dialogue.
And let's look at those now in Fluency Builder.
Alright, on Fluency Builder today, we have four great phrases.
And let's start with the first one.
So, Veronica asks, what's going on?
Basically, what's happening, right?
What's happening, what's the situation?
Now, another interesting thing is that among friends, you could use this phrase to say,
Hey, how are you? How's it going?
So, you can say, hey, Erica, what's going on?
And it all depends on your tone of voice.
So, when you want to know how that person is, hey, Marco, what's going on?
Right, but if you're angry or maybe something strange is happening, you're like, hey, what's going on here?
Yes, so your voice falls.
Right, now let's take a look at our next phrase. And this one is very, very useful, especially if you've lied.
Yes, so Stephen says, I haven't been completely honest with you.
I haven't been completely honest with you.
So, that means he hasn't been telling the whole truth.
Right, pretty easy to understand, but I think its use is interesting here.
Right, you might use it to kind of soften up the person to confess something.
Right, so when you're ready to come clean about a secret you have or a lie you told, this is a great way to prepare your listener.
Right, you know what? I haven't been completely honest with you.
Moving on to our third phrase.
So, the CIA claimed that Stephen's father had made the discovery of the millennium.
The discovery of the millennium.
Discovery of the millennium.
Okay, let's break this down. Millennium.
Millennium is a thousand years.
So, the discovery of the millennium is...
The best, most important discovery in the past thousand years.
Right, so now we can change it a little bit and say the invention of the millennium.
Or even the party of the millennium.
Exactly, so it doesn't necessarily have to be the most important of the last one thousand years.
But it means it was pretty good.
It was pretty good or very important.
Hey, you can also say the discovery of the decade, right?
Of the decade, of the century, of the year.
And now let's take a look at our last phrase.
So, Stephen confessed he came clean, he told her everything, but he said he wasn't supposed to fall in love with her.
I wasn't supposed to.
I wasn't supposed to fall in love with you.
Alright, so let's look at this phrase, I wasn't supposed to.
It's an interesting one, it's sort of like a cross between I didn't need to and I shouldn't have done.
Right, now let's look at some examples.
I wasn't supposed to come to work today.
Alright, so you didn't need to.
It wasn't necessary.
Alright, so maybe it was your annual vacation day but you came into work anyway.
Or maybe it was a holiday and I came to work anyways.
So, the plan was not for you to come to work.
Right, so in this case we're saying it wasn't necessary.
Or it wasn't planned.
Or planned.
Now let's look at it the other way, when you shouldn't.
Okay, Marco I wasn't supposed to tell you this but...
Okay, so now in this case you shouldn't be telling me this, you shouldn't tell me the secret, but you're going to anyways.
Yes, off air.
So, I wasn't supposed to, in this case it means I shouldn't.
Alright, some really great language here, now I think it would help us to hear it one more time in the dialogue.
Veronica, Veronica, Veronica, are you okay?
Steven, what's going on? Who were those guys?
I didn't know you have a gun. What's going on?
I will come clean as soon as we get to safety, okay?
For now you have to trust me, please, I would never do anything to hurt you.
Steven, I...
Okay, run!
I haven't been completely honest with you, Veronica, I'm sorry.
I'm not a fireman, I'm not even from the United States.
I'm a spy for the Indian government.
It was a peaceful town, and my father was a renowned chemist.
One day he was approached by members of the CIA, claiming that my father had made the discovery of the Millennium in his small lab back at the university, where he taught biochemistry.
When I saw him again, I vowed to discover the whereabouts of my father, and consequently joined the Indian Intelligence Bureau.
I'm sorry. I wasn't supposed to meet you, I wasn't supposed to fall in love with you.
But you have to believe me when I tell you that what I feel for you is real.
Okay, great. So now we're getting close to the end of this series. So what's gonna happen? Maybe Veronica is also a spy.
Oh my God, I don't think I can handle that.
Alright, so we really need your suggestions, we need your ideas. We want to know how you think the series ends or how you would want it to end.
Do you want it to be a happy ending?
Or a tragedy?
Or maybe action-filled ending?
Alright, well, we've got two lessons left in this series, so visit our website at EnglishPod.com and leave your suggestions.
Alright guys, we'll see you guys there and until next time.
Goodbye!
And today we're going to be looking at another kind of science fiction lesson related to
aliens.
And I think in this lesson we'll actually have an alien sighting here at EnglishPod.
Right, an alien encounter.
So we're going to be learning about the stars, we're going to be learning about aliens and
UFOs today.
That's right, and we're also going to learn some language that you can use to describe
negative results, things that happen that are bad.
So let's start by looking at vocabulary preview.
Okay, we have two words for you that we're going to hear in the dialogue.
And the first one is constellation.
Constellation.
A constellation.
A constellation is a group of stars that makes a shape and has a name.
The next one is earthlings.
Earthlings.
So earthlings are people who live on planet Earth.
On Earth, exactly.
And in the dialogue we're going to hear greetings earthlings.
This is the most typical phrase that you will hear in almost every single alien movie.
So it's like saying hello people from Earth.
Yes, every single alien in the world says this phrase.
So those are the two words that we are going to find in this dialogue today.
So why don't we start and listen to what happens with our UFO experience.
Oh honey, this is so romantic.
I have never seen like so many stars before.
It's beautiful.
See that constellation there?
That's Orion.
And the very bright star?
Well, it's not a star because it doesn't blink.
It's actually Venus.
What's that big flashy one?
I think it's a UFO.
Greetings earthlings.
I come from afar.
From a distant galaxy known only to a few.
Where did you come from?
We have been observing you for the last 3000 years.
We have seen the amazing capacity that humans have to create such wonders as the Taj Mahal
or masterpieces such as the Hafner Symphony.
Unfortunately, your intelligence and creativity does not come without consequence.
Your ambition and desire for more will be your downfall and we are here to save your
planet from you.
You think you have us figured out?
What gives you the right to come and judge us?
What are you?
and
the Earth.
some of the negative results that are happening because of the human's behavior on earth,
And so one of the things they said was that your intelligence and creativity does not
come without consequence.
Consequence.
Without consequence.
So the consequence of an action are basically the results.
And here the phrase without consequence suggests the negative results.
So the negative results from your actions.
What about our next word?
Well, the aliens also talked about human ambition.
Ambition.
So, what is ambition exactly?
So ambition is the desire or the want for things to be better, to improve, to get rich,
to be technologically advanced.
So to want more.
You have ambitions in your life, in your professional life, in your personal life.
So basically we have ambition and we have desires and these are the reasons for our
downfall.
So downfall.
Downfall.
Will be your downfall.
So the downfall of something is?
Something that causes failure.
So the loss of wealth or the loss of reputation or that it gets ruined.
The downfall.
We can say like for example, the downfall of the Roman empire.
You know what, this guy is a great employee, but his lack of ambition was his downfall.
Coming up to our next word.
The alien described that humans have a belligerent attitude.
Belligerent.
This is a very nice word.
So why don't we listen to some examples of how we can use it in context?
Don't take that belligerent tone with me.
I don't want to argue with you.
Thomas is always so belligerent.
It is impossible to talk to him.
Stacey was fired for her belligerent attitude.
So I can understand that it means sort of aggressive, having a strong willingness to
fight.
A belligerent person, a belligerent attitude, a belligerent country.
Anguish.
So to cause great anguish.
To cause a lot of terrible emotional or physical pain.
So it is a synonym of pain, of suffering.
But really intense suffering.
Really intense.
Why don't we give a few examples?
The end of his marriage caused him great anguish.
Or for example, the loss of his dog caused him great anguish.
So anguish.
So we've covered five great words on Language Takeaway today.
Why don't we move on now to putting it together?
We're going to look at three phrases that we heard in the dialogue and see how we can
use them in different contexts.
So the aliens were praising some of the masterpieces that the humans have created, right?
He said, you humans create such wonders as the Taj Mahal, blah, blah, blah.
So let's look at this phrase, such wonders as.
So we have a noun here, a wonder.
An amazing thing.
An amazing structure.
He says such wonders as.
Now we can change this noun and replace it with another one, right?
We can replace that noun with anything.
So why don't we hear a few examples?
To finish this house, we need such materials as cement, wood, and steel.
I need to write a report on a social topic such as psychology, health, or marriage.
Companies have found that social networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter are great
marketing opportunities.
So this is a really useful structure to use when you want to give examples of many different
So when a civilian was criticizing the humans, the guy said, what gives you the right to
come and judge us?
So interesting phrase.
What gives you the right?
So if I tell you what gives you the right to, and then a verb.
What am I saying there?
You're basically saying you don't have the right to do this.
You shouldn't do this.
Why are you doing it?
Or why do you want to have this control over me?
So when would you use this phrase?
If somebody is trying to control you or maybe somebody is judging you or doing something
to you against your will, maybe, you would say, what gives you the right to take my phone
away?
What gives you the right to tell me what to do?
It's a good phrase to tell that other person that they shouldn't do that.
They're doing something unfair.
Unfair.
And our next phrase is very similar.
Who are you to play God with our fate?
So I want to look at this.
To play God.
So to play God is making these arbitrary decisions.
Like he is the master of everything.
Controlling everything.
But this phrase, who are you to?
So basically saying you don't have the power or authority to do this.
And you can use it in exactly the same way.
Who are you to tell me what to do?
Who are you to take away my phone?
So you don't have the power to do this.
So these phrases are a little bit aggressive, almost belligerent, wouldn't you say?
But I guess if you are being treated unfair or if you are angry at a situation, it would
be a good phrase to use to put your point across.
And as we saw, these humans are pretty angry.
So why don't we listen again as they're telling the aliens, who are you to do this to us?
Oh, honey, this is so romantic.
That's actually Venus.
What's that big, flashy one?
Greetings, Earthlings.
I come from afar, from a distant galaxy known only to a few.
We have been observing you for the last three thousand years.
We have seen your amazing capacity that humans have to create such wonders as the Taj Mahal
Your ambition and desire for more will be your downfall, and we are here to save your
Silence, human.
It is that belligerent attitude that has caused years of pain and anguish among yourselves.
Now you will pay the price.
Okay so UFOs and constellations and stars and planets.
Have you ever had an encounter with one of these?
Well definitely not an encounter with a UFO but maybe with some of the wonders of the
night sky.
Well you know when I was small I used to have my vacations up in northern Canada and because
it was so far away from the city it was really dark and you could see all of these shooting
stars so these stars moving across the sky and lighting up the whole sky with their brightness
and it really is one of the most beautiful things I've ever seen.
So shooting stars those are like balls of fire that move across the sky right?
Yeah exactly and I saw once actually I was in an astronomy class and turned around and
over the horizon like at the end of the sky where the sky meets the earth I saw this huge
ball of fire move across the sky and it looked like it landed in the field next to us it
was so close.
Wow that's nice.
Yeah pretty amazing.
Well I imagine that it is really amazing and I guess Canada is the place to be when you
want to see these things.
I know we've got like northern lights, we've got shooting stars, lots of stuff.
Alright so what about you guys?
You should tell us if you've ever seen a shooting star or a meteor or something of this type
of astronomy things right?
Or even a UFO.
Alright so come to our website englishpod.com be sure to leave your questions and your comments
and Erica and I are there to answer any questions or doubts.
So thanks for downloading you guys and until next time goodbye!
And today we are going back in time.
That's right, we're visiting the 1950s.
Alright so we are going to the year 1950 and well, we are going to look at some of the
typical and common words and phrases that were used back in that year.
Yes, all of these words and phrases you might still hear today but they are really a little
bit old-fashioned.
Alright, so we have some words that we need to look at before we listen to our dialogue.
So let's look at these words in Vocabulary Preview.
We have two words we're going to hear in the dialogue.
The first one, sock hop.
Sock hop.
A sock hop.
Okay, now this is very old-fashioned and probably not used anymore.
No, not used anymore.
But a sock hop is a school dance.
Okay so all the kids after school would get together and dance rock and roll in the gym
or something.
And well, it's very popular and very common among American culture in those days.
Yes, in 1950.
So you would still maybe see this in a movie or something like that.
And our second word is still used today.
Sadie Hawkins dance.
A Sadie Hawkins dance.
Alright, a Sadie Hawkins dance.
So a Sadie Hawkins dance is a dance when the girls ask the guys to be their date.
Okay, so it's a party and the guys don't invite the girls.
No, the girls invite the guys.
Okay, so it's a little bit of a reverse of roles there.
So in this case, the girls have to come up to the guys and say, hey, do you want to go
to the dance with me?
Well, this still happens today in North America, so you will probably hear it sometime.
And I guess now we could listen to a dialogue for the first time.
And it takes place at a high school.
Hey, Tracy, how are you doing?
I'm swell, Sandy.
Hey, listen, you want to go to the sock hop with me this Friday?
It'll be a blast.
First of all, it's the Sadie Hawkins dance.
The girls got to ask the guys.
Also, all right.
So when are you going to ask me?
I've had my eye on you for a while.
Hey, buddy, ease off my girl, man.
Or do you want a knuckle sandwich?
Cool it, guys.
Your girl says who says me, pipsqueak.
All right, so a little bit of a discussion over a girl.
So we're going to be looking at some of these words that were maybe a little bit difficult
in the dialogue in Language Takeaway.
Well, we've got five phrases and words from the dialogue.
Now, the first thing we heard was Sandy said, heya.
Heya.
Now, an interjection, a way of saying hi, but very old-fashioned.
Basically, hi, you.
Or hey, you.
So heya.
I guess you would still use it today, though, right?
Yeah, it's still a normal way to greet someone.
Very friendly.
And what about our second word?
Well, Sandy asks Tracy, how are you?
And Tracy replies, I'm swell.
I'm swell.
Swell.
I'm just swell.
When you are swell, you are great.
You're great.
And again, swell is an old-fashioned way of saying I'm good or I'm great, but you would
still hear it.
And swell also is used to describe things.
That was a swell party.
Now, for our next word, they got into a fight and Tracy said, cool it, guys.
Cool it.
So, why don't we listen to some examples of cool it before we explain it.
Just cool it.
Now is not the right time to get angry.
You need to cool it and stop yelling at me.
Don't cry, Pam.
You will be okay.
So, cool it, guys.
Take it easy.
Don't get into a fight.
This is one my dad used to say to me and my sisters all the time.
Cool it, kids.
Stop fighting.
So, it is still very commonly used, I would say.
Now, for our last two words, these are a little bit more old-fashioned.
Straight from 1952.
They talk about a knuckle sandwich.
He says, do you want a knuckle sandwich?
A knuckle sandwich.
What are we talking about here?
So, on your hand, you have...
Above your fingers, you have your knuckles.
So, those are the bumpy parts on my hand.
The bones on the top part of your hand.
So, he's basically saying, do you want me to punch you?
Do you want me to hit you with my hand, with my fist?
So, it's a very informal way of saying a punch, knuckle sandwich.
I'll give you a knuckle sandwich.
And for our last word, he called...
Tommy called Sandy a pipsqueak.
A pipsqueak.
Now, this is kind of an insult, but again, very old-fashioned.
A pipsqueak is a very small person, right?
A small person who is not strong.
Or not powerful.
So, a small and weak person.
Pipsqueak.
I guess nowadays, you can still call somebody pipsqueak, but maybe in a lighter sense.
It would be a little bit funny to call someone a pipsqueak.
So, a pipsqueak.
Why don't we listen to our dialogue again?
We're going to slow it down a little bit so you can get all these words that we just looked
at, and then we'll come back and look at some phrases.
Hey Tracy, how are you doing?
Also...
So, when are you going to ask me?
Hey buddy, ease off my girl, man.
Your girl?
Says me, pipsqueak.
So that was a little bit easier to understand, but some great 50s style phrases and words.
So why don't we look at some of these phrases now in Fluency Builder.
On Fluency Builder today, we're going to look at three phrases.
Why don't we start with the first one?
Sandy said that the party will be a blast.
To be a blast.
So if something is a blast, it's very fun.
It's entertaining.
Really, really fun.
So the party was a blast.
I had a great time last night.
It was a blast.
So, very fun times.
And you'll still hear this phrase used today.
Now, the next one.
So Sandy said he had his eye on Tracy.
He said, I've had my eye on you.
To have your eye on someone.
So if I have my eye on the new iPhone that came out.
You are watching it carefully because you want it.
So I'm keeping my attention on it because I want it.
I have my eye on that sweater because it's on sale.
So you really want that sweater.
So to have your eye on something or on someone.
So for our last phrase, Tommy told Sandy, hey buddy, ease off my girl.
Ease off.
So why don't we listen to some examples of how we could use ease off because it might
be a little bit tricky and then we'll come back and talk about it.
You need to ease off the junk food.
Matt is putting so much pressure on me these days.
I wish he would ease off.
You're pushing Susie too much.
You need to ease off a bit.
So it looks like you say this phrase ease off when somebody is putting pressure on you
or doing something to you that they shouldn't.
Maybe they're being too intense or maybe annoying you.
So you tell them, hey, ease off.
Stay back.
Stay away.
So ease off.
Ease off my girlfriend.
Ease off the fatty foods.
So take it easy.
Stay away from.
So some great phrases there.
I think it's a good idea for us to listen to our dialogue one more time and then we'll
come back and talk a little bit more about the 1950s.
Also.
So the 1950s, a nice era.
And this is the first of a small series that we're going to have of different words and
phrases that were used back in the 1950s, 1960s, 1970s, et cetera.
And a lot more time travel is coming up here in EnglishPod.
Because a lot of these phrases are still used and you might even see them in movies or if
you're talking to somebody that was maybe born in these eras, they might even still
use them today.
So do you guys know any English phrases or slangs from the 1950s?
Why don't you visit our website at EnglishPod.com to tell us about it?
We'll see you guys there and also if you have questions or comments, please leave them on
the comments section as well.
Well thanks for listening and until next time.
EnglishPods.com
And today we're bringing you another part of our sports series and today we're going
to be talking about volleyball.
That's right and we're going all the way to New Zealand to visit the Men's Volleyball
Championships.
So we're going to be looking at some great words and phrases related to volleyball and
also how to describe a sporting event.
So before we start on the dialogue, let's take a look at two words on vocabulary preview.
Now the first one, encounter.
Encounter.
An exciting encounter.
All right, so if we have an exciting encounter, it means we have an exciting meeting of two
people or two teams or two groups.
If I say I had an incredible encounter last night with my best friend.
You met up with your best friend and something happened.
Okay, so that's what an encounter would mean.
Looking at our second word now, powerhouse.
Two powerhouse teams.
All right, so we have two powerhouse teams, China and Brazil.
So a powerhouse team is basically a strong, powerful, really energetic, great team, right?
Okay, so we can use it for teams such as in this case, but we can also describe maybe
a company or a person as a powerhouse.
That guy is a powerhouse.
He can lift 500 pounds.
Now I think it's time for us to listen to our dialogue for the first time.
We're going to be listening to this great sporting event as we are taken to New Zealand
to see China and Brazil play.
It's a beautiful day here in New Zealand at the men's volleyball world championship.
My name is Rick Fields and I'm joined by the man with a plan, Bob Copeland.
Thank you, Rick.
We've got a very exciting encounter ahead of us today as two powerhouse teams, Brazil
and China, face off against each other and try to qualify for the next round.
Without a doubt, both teams are in top shape and this will prove to be a competitive match.
The ref signals the start of the game and here we go.
Ribeiro serves and China quickly receives the ball.
Chun bumps it to the center and a very nice set by Chun.
Xu spikes it.
Wow, what a great hit.
The Brazilian blockers anticipated the play and tried to block him, but he managed to
get the ball in.
It's China's service now.
What a superb jump serve by Li.
Oh, oh, and we have a let serve.
The ball was coming in fast and almost made it over the net.
Brazil calls for a timeout and we'll be right back after a short commercial break.
Well, sounds like a pretty exciting encounter between these two countries.
Very good teams and both of them, as they mentioned, are powerhouse teams.
Well, why don't we take a look at some of the vocabulary that we came across in this
We're going to be focusing on volleyball words here in Language Takeaway.
Okay, so in Language Takeaway today, we're going to have six words and let's start with
the first one.
Chun bumps it to the center.
All right, to bump.
So, in volleyball, when you are going to receive the ball, you put your arms together and you
hit it with your forearms.
So at the top of your arm.
And that's how you pass it to another player.
That's called a bump.
So it is a noun and a verb.
A bump to bump.
Now, another type of way to move the ball in volleyball we heard in the dialogue is
a set.
A very nice set by Chen.
So a set or to set.
Right, the word can be used as a verb and a noun.
And again, you take the ball and you move it with the tips of your fingers.
That is actually done by the setter.
That is done by the setter.
And he does this, he sets the ball, so then the attacker can spike the ball.
That's our next word, to spike.
So to spike the ball.
Or a spike.
Is when you hit the ball very hard and very fast with the palm of your hand.
And that's how you score your points, right?
So you'll see three basic moves.
The bump, set, and spike.
But what about the serve?
So our fourth word in volleyball is service.
So it's China's service now.
So the service is the opportunity for the team to serve the ball.
And it's basically to start the game by hitting it to the other side.
Now one type of serve is the jump serve.
Jump serve.
Now this is very popular and you will see some players do this.
They will throw the ball in the air and then jump in the air and hit it.
So that's a jump serve.
And our last word for today is let's serve.
A let serve.
We have a let's serve today.
So a let's serve is when you serve the ball and it sort of brushes over the net.
It'll hit the net but it will still pass to the other side.
And that's an illegal move in volleyball, isn't it?
When you are serving, yes.
So a let serve.
So those are the six terms related to volleyball that we're going to be looking at today.
And well, with this in mind, let's move on to looking at some phrases now in, what is
it?
So our two announcers, Bob and Rick, said that we've got an exciting encounter ahead
of us.
So they use this phrase ahead of us.
Ahead of us.
So basically, what does that mean?
Something will happen in the very near future.
So they are expecting it or they will encounter it maybe.
So why don't we give a few examples of this phrase.
Marco, we've got a long day ahead of us.
We have a very exciting trip ahead of us today.
So ahead of us.
So we know it's an exciting game and we heard the announcers say, without a doubt, both
teams are in top shape.
So the phrase without a doubt.
Without a doubt.
So if I start a phrase using without a doubt.
You're basically saying there's no question.
It's so obvious.
This definitely is true.
It's very true.
So without a doubt, EnglishPod is the best podcast out there.
Without a doubt, this is the strategy we should take.
So without a doubt.
Why don't we move on to our third phrase now.
This will prove to be a competitive match.
So let's look at the phrase will prove to be.
Something will prove to be.
So before we get into it, why don't we listen to some examples.
I think you'll prove to be the greatest president we've ever had.
The new HR policy is proving to be a waste of time.
We were worried that we were going to get laid off, but our fears proved to be untrue.
Okay so when something will prove to be, it will show itself to be this thing, right?
It will demonstrate.
We will see it.
We will see for sure how it will be.
And now for our fourth phrase, a very simple one, but very common in sports commentators
or when you're watching a game.
You'll say great play.
Now we know play is usually a verb, right?
But here it's acting as a noun.
A play is basically a move in a sport or a game.
So when somebody says a great play, it means all the succession of moves and passes and
hits to make the point.
So it was a great play.
And that you can use that for any sport.
So why don't we listen to our dialogue now for the second time and then we'll come back
and talk about this very popular sport, volleyball.
It's a beautiful day here in New Zealand at the Men's Volleyball World Championship.
My name is Rick Fields and I'm joined by the man with the plan, Bob Copeland.
So, are you a volleyball fan, Marco?
It's a very nice sport.
It's very fast and it's very hard.
But it's very interesting to get together with friends, maybe at the beach and play
some beach volleyball or something like that.
Yeah, I think that's the best place to play volleyball.
You know, we even have beach volleyball up in freezing cold Canada.
And do you have sand?
Occasionally.
All right, so volleyball is a great sport, but now we want to know what sport you want
to learn about.
We've covered soccer, we've covered basketball, we've covered volleyball.
So tell us what other sports you would like to learn vocabulary and phrases on.
That's right, you can tell us this and many more things at EnglishPod.com, our website.
Right, leave your questions and comments and we'll see you guys there.
Thanks for downloading and until next time, goodbye!
Hello English learners, welcome back to another lesson with us here at EnglishPod.
And today we're going to be talking about physics.
An advanced lesson for all you physics lovers out there.
And even for those of you who maybe don't love physics so much, there's still some great
We're going to be talking about the Big Bang Theory, a very popular theory of how the universe
or the world and how we came upon being created.
So we've got some physics language, but we've also got some really tough words that I bet
many of our users have never seen before, which we're going to look at those in this
So why don't we get started with this great and interesting lesson.
And let's listen to the dialogue for the first time.
You don't look too good.
Yeah, my head hurts.
I've been in physics class all day.
It's killer.
I liked physics.
It's all math really.
Arcs, curves, velocity, cool stuff.
But today's lesson was all about the creation of the universe.
A physics class about the creation of the universe?
That's some pretty unscientific language there.
It sounds more religious to me.
It's all religion.
Take the theory of the Big Bang.
How is it possible that all of the stuff in the universe comes from an explosion?
That's no better than Atlas carrying the globe on his back or African myths about turtles
and stuff.
Turtles?
Look, all that's required for the creation of matter is an imbalance of particles and
antiparticles.
At least that's what the math says.
Math?
Schmath.
What's the evidence?
There is evidence.
You know Edwin Hubble, the guy who in the early 20th century was the first scientist
to measure the drift of matter in the universe, thus advancing notions of an expanding universe.
What would it be expanding from?
Well, the Big Bang, duh.
Anyway, it's just a theory.
Why do people go around touting theories?
Where's the rigor in that?
Dude, don't equivocate.
A theory only becomes a theory after withstanding rigorous testing.
You slept through class, didn't you?
You're making my head hurt again.
Quit with the questions.
Well it sure does sound like a difficult class, doesn't it?
It's a very interesting topic and very controversial, so there are many opinions on it.
But before we get into that, why don't we take a look at some of those physics-related
words that we listen to in Language Takeaway.
We've got four words we've heard in the dialogue that are all related to physics.
So let's start with the first one, which is matter.
Matter.
Okay, so you probably know this word from what's the matter, what's wrong.
In this case, we're talking about matter, so anything that occupies space, that has
a mass or that is related to energy.
So matter.
So all things in the world are made up of matter, right?
Now let's move on to another one.
Particles.
Now particles are a little bit more, now particles are a little bit easier.
They're just very small pieces of a whole.
An apple is made up of apple particles?
If you want to understand it easily, yeah, apple has many small particles that make up
the apple.
So like, let's paint a picture here.
Imagine you've got a beach and all the pieces of sand are particles of the beach.
So those are particles.
Now the next one is a little bit difficult for me.
I don't understand this.
Antiparticles.
So antiparticles.
Now this prefix, anti, it means something that is against, right?
I've seen this one in anti-clockwise.
So antiparticles are those that are against particles.
So basically if you have a particle that has a positive charge and another one comes in
with a negative charge in the same weight and the same type of particle, if they get
together, they cancel each other out and they both die.
So that's an antiparticle.
Well, you heard it first.
You're at English Pod.
So antiparticles are not a good thing to have around.
Now we also heard them talk about the drift of matter.
Drift of matter.
Also sometimes called drift of dark matter.
Well, I know the verb to drift, right?
To sort of float away on the sea.
If you have a little ship, you leave it on the beach, it'll drift away.
It'll go slowly away.
But what about drift of matter?
So basically the drift of matter is this residue, the remains of the big bang, of the explosion.
So matter and radiation keeps on drifting through the universe.
So it's moving slowly through the universe.
Moving slowly.
So this big explosion and just consider it to be like this ripple and it's expanding
and expanding.
That's the drift of matter.
Well, I learned something else today.
Some very specific words related to physics, but it's very interesting.
Once you get into reading about these things, it will help you to understand it better.
But we've also got some non-physics related language that we want to look at now in Language
Takeaway part two.
So they were talking about the drift of matter and how it's drifting through the universe.
And then he said, thus advancing the notions of an expanding universe.
So I want to look at the phrase, thus advancing notions.
Thus advancing notions.
Let's start with the first word here.
Thus.
So this is a good connector.
Or conjunction.
And basically it means.
Therefore.
Therefore or in consequence.
So thus advancing notions.
Now notions are ideas.
And so when you advance notions or advance ideas, you help them make progress.
You help them go forward and become known.
So in order to understand this in the context, they are saying that the drift of matter thus
advances notions of an expanding universe.
So it is making progress to people believing that the universe is getting bigger.
Now, I really like this word thus.
And a lot of people are afraid to use it.
So why don't we hear a few examples of how it's used in context.
So you can see that we've studied the fossil record and thus we can conclude that evolution
is a fact.
He broke severe company policies.
Thus we had to fire him.
I did not receive the documents on time.
Thus I was unable to send them to you.
Good examples of thus.
And I guess now we can use it a little bit better.
Now let's move on to our next word.
So they were talking about people who go around touting theories.
Tout.
To tout.
So what does this mean?
Well, basically when you tout something, you talk about it in a positive way.
So as to almost like sell that thing.
So for example, we can say the company is touting the many benefits of its product.
Okay very good.
So to talk positively about something.
Yeah, with the idea of trying to sell that thing or make people buy into it or believe
Well, we heard two related words in the dialogue.
They were talking about where's the rigor in these theories and rigorous testing.
Okay, so what's the difference between rigor and rigorous?
Rigor is the state of being very clear and careful and exact.
And rigorous is just the adjective.
Clear, careful, attention to detail and exact.
So rigorous training.
I'm going over my notes in rigorous detail.
And now we have one more word today in language takeaway and that is equivocate.
So we heard dude, don't equivocate.
Don't equivocate.
So what does he mean by this?
Well, when you equivocate, you use big words to try and mislead somebody.
So using big words to confuse or to mislead.
So for example, we could say the job candidate, we could say when asked about his experience,
the job candidate equivocated.
Okay, or even the presidential nominee did not equivocate when he explained his tax policy.
So some good examples, good phrases, a lot of interesting stuff and a little bit more
educational podcast today.
So let's continue with our education by listening to the dialogue one last time.
Schmath!
Alright, so the Big Bang theory, very controversial.
In some schools in the United States, they have prohibited the teachers from teaching
I know, which seems quite interesting to me.
But it is actually very controversial and people can get really, really upset about
this in America.
So it is an interesting topic.
Take it from the point of view of just something else, maybe just to learn a little bit more
about this topic such as physics, right?
But there's something that is uncontroversial that I did want to talk about now that we
heard in the dialogue.
There's a lot of really interesting sort of slang words here in the dialogue, isn't
there?
We heard it in the first part of the dialogue when he said, I've been in physics class all
day.
Killer.
So what does he mean by killer?
Oh, he's just basically saying it's really hard.
You know, it's like it's so difficult that it's murderous.
It was intense.
But this word we can use positively as well, can't we?
Yeah, I guess you could say that was a killer party.
Yeah, killer moves on the dance floor.
Another interesting thing is that he said math schmath.
Now schmath isn't really a word.
No, but this is a really common structure we use in English when we want to sort of
take away from the importance of an idea.
So you're saying it's not important.
I don't care about it or it's not worth it.
So for example, I'm on a diet.
And I would say diet schmath.
So basically the structure is just added sh and then just kind of make it rhyme.
Schmath or like.
Like work schmirk.
Work schmirk or something like that.
So you're making fun of it and you're taking away importance.
That's a pretty neat phrase.
And one more.
We heard them say duh.
Duh.
So when we say this, we're just saying like, you should know this, stupid.
This is obvious.
It's kind of making fun of the person or just saying it's so obvious, how can you not know
And it always goes either at the beginning or at the end of a sentence.
So duh, Marco, we're recording a podcast.
So some great words and phrases in this dialogue and a little bit of slang as well so you can
use it maybe with your friends.
If you have any questions about the language in this dialogue or any thoughts on physics
or the Big Bang Theory, come and check out our website at EnglishPod.com.
We'll see you guys there and until next time.
Take care, guys.
And today we have a very special lesson because we're going to be focusing a little bit more
on grammar.
We're going to look today at the difference between past simple and past progressive or
sometimes called past continuous.
So, we are going to take a look at these two structures which are a little bit confusing
at times and we're going to be practicing today.
But before we get started, why don't we take a look at vocabulary preview.
Well, this dialogue is all about telling a story in the past and we're going to hear
two words in the dialogue that we need to understand the meaning of.
So, the first one, ages.
Ages.
I haven't seen you in ages.
Okay, so if I tell you, I haven't seen you in ages.
Basically you haven't seen me in a really long time.
And this word ages, we can use in many different ways like, I've been studying English for
ages.
Or for example, I can say, I haven't been to the dentist in ages.
Oh, well, guess you better go, huh?
So, ages, a very long time.
Now, another phrase, to run into somebody.
So, to run into somebody.
I ran into Matt.
Okay, so if you ran into Matt the other day.
You met him unexpectedly.
Okay, so you didn't plan to meet, you didn't have a date, you just casually on the street
met.
Okay, so I ran into your friend the other day.
Okay, so two good words.
We're going to hear both of these in the dialogue.
So why don't we get started with dialogue first time.
Mike, what's going on man?
Long time no see.
Hey Pat.
Yeah, I haven't seen you in ages.
Things are going great.
It's funny running into you like this.
Small world, huh?
You know, just last week I ran into Matt as well.
How's he doing?
He's doing well.
We went out for a couple of beers and the funniest thing happened.
Oh yeah?
Well, we were talking and catching up on what we've been doing.
Talking about work and family when all of a sudden Matt saw a mouse run under the chair
and he completely lost it.
He started freaking out and screaming.
Yeah, and the funniest thing was then he jumped onto his chair and started shrieking like
a girl.
He should have been there.
Everyone was staring and laughing.
It was hilarious.
All right, very good, so a funny story and as we saw a lot of stuff in the past, right?
That's right and we're going to look at that in a moment but first we've got lots of exciting
language to describe when somebody gets really emotional.
Okay, so why don't we start now with language takeaway.
We have four words here.
Now in the dialogue, the guy in the story lost it.
So he saw a mouse and he completely lost it.
To lose it.
Okay, so when you lose something, you lose it.
What are you losing?
You're losing control of yourself and your emotion.
Okay, so you lose your temper maybe.
So when I lose it, do I just get angry?
Or upset?
Or even sad?
But it's usually a negative feeling.
Okay, so it's not a good thing to lose it.
No, so for example, when I showed my boss the sales figures, he completely lost it.
So that's what lose it means and now our second word is very similar but has a little bit
of a difference.
He started freaking out.
Okay, so to freak out.
To freak out.
Now freak out is very similar to lose it, right?
Yeah, but why don't we hear an example now of somebody freaking out?
It's just, no, no.
Okay, forget it.
All right, just forget it.
I don't even want to just, I just want to forget it.
I just want to forget it.
Woo.
I gotta calm down.
I'm so happy.
I can't even.
I can't even express it.
I'm like, I haven't, have I even finished one sentence?
I'm like, give me a high five, baby.
All right, so we heard this person freaking out and basically it could be losing control
or losing your temper but also in a positive way.
So maybe you're really excited about something that's going to happen.
So you're freaking out.
Maybe you're very nervous or you're very excited.
And now moving on to our third word, stare.
To stare.
People started to stare.
Staring.
Now, when you stare at someone or at something.
You look at and focus at something for a really long time.
So you are looking at it.
Focusing on it.
Longer than usual.
Maybe when we were small, our parents taught us that it's not nice to stare at other people.
So we're going to stare.
And our final word, when Matt saw the mouse, he started shrieking.
So to shriek.
Shriek.
Very similar to that movie Shrek.
It sounds quite similar.
But it's different.
What does shriek mean?
Well, why don't we listen to an example?
Holy chingada.
Okay, so I think shrieking is to shout in a very high pitched voice.
That's to shriek.
So we saw four really great words in language takeaway.
And why don't we listen now to the dialogue for a second time, a little bit slower.
And then we'll come back and look at the differences between simple past and past progressive.
Mike, what's going on, man?
Hey, Pat.
Small world, eh?
You know, just last week, I ran into Matt as well.
Oh, yeah?
Talking about work and family, when all of a sudden, Matt's all mouse run under his chair
And the funniest thing was that he jumped on his chair and started shrieking like a
girl.
You should have been there.
Okay, so there was a lot of different uses of past tense here in this dialogue, wasn't
When he was telling a story that happened, he used the past a lot.
Well, let's now, as promised, look at past simple and past progressive in Grammar Breakdown.
Okay, Marco, before we start our discussion, why don't we hear one example of past simple
and one example of past progressive?
Okay, so we heard that just last week, I ran into Matt.
So we discussed what run into means.
Yep, to meet someone by surprise.
And now this structure is the simple past, right?
Now the second example that we heard was, we were talking and catching up.
Okay, so let's look at the difference in meaning here.
I ran into Matt, happened in the past, right?
Right, simple past.
But one moment in the past.
So the action finished, concluded.
Started and finished all around the same time.
So it's one simple moment.
Now, the other example is in the past progressive.
So the action was happening for a longer period of time.
So let's attach some times to this.
Maybe you ran into Matt at 8.04.
And so the action started at 8.04.
But you were talking and catching up from 8.05 until 9.05.
So you were talking for an hour.
So it's the past progressive you use when the action is happening for a longer period
of time.
So to better understand this, let's have another example.
Matt saw a mouse run under his chair and he completely lost it.
So as we heard in the example, he saw a mouse run under his chair.
So a quick action that started and finished quickly.
He saw the mouse and it ran under the chair.
Now, the second example we heard was, everyone was staring and laughing.
So maybe this happened over four or five minutes.
So people were looking at him and laughing and talking about how he was screaming like
So that's the main difference between the simple past and the past progressive.
The amount of time that the action happened.
Well, now that we understand a little bit more about the past tense, why don't we hear
it again in context by listening to the dialogue for a third time.
Well, we were talking and catching up on what we've been doing, talking about work and family
when all of a sudden Matt saw a mouse run under the chair and he completely lost it.
And the funniest thing was, then he jumped onto his chair and started shrieking like
So now that we understand the words and the grammar behind it, there are some interesting
phrases here that you can use casually with your friends.
There's actually a lot of great sort of meeting and greeting and saying hello language.
So for example, when they met up, since they were old friends, he said, Hey, Pat.
Hey.
So this word, hey.
It's kind of like hi.
It's hi, right?
So you can use it to get somebody's attention, right?
Like, Hey, I'm over here.
Hey, waiter.
But in this case, like, Hey, how's it going?
Or hi.
So it's a really friendly and informal way of saying hi.
And then he asked, how's it going?
So again, this is a way of saying, how are you?
Marco, what's the correct answer to this greeting?
Well, well, for example, he said, things are going great.
You can say, yeah, things are great.
Or even great.
So how's it going?
Oh, it's great.
Now, another one that we didn't see in the dialogue, but it's very popular is when somebody
asks, Hey, what's up?
So again, what is the right way to answer this question?
So when somebody says, what's up?
You can say, well, not much.
Or if maybe you have news or something that you want to share, you would say, well, I
just got back from the doctor's office.
But you wouldn't say, fine, thank you.
Or you wouldn't say, very good.
Or any of these other common answers to what's up.
It can be a little bit tricky.
So the rule is, the normal thing to say when someone says, hey, what's up?
Is nothing much.
So interesting ways of greeting casually with people, right?
You wouldn't use this fully with your boss, maybe, or in an office setting.
More useful with your friends.
So if you have any other questions or have any other informal greetings that you would
like to share with us, come to EnglishPod.com.
Marco and I are always around to answer your questions and we look forward to hearing from
So until next time.
Have a great day.
And today we are going back in time again and this time we're going to be in the 1960s.
We're going to learn some phrases and some slang that were really popular back in 1964.
And most of these phrases and words we still use today.
So it's very interesting and very good to know.
I'm looking forward to this trip back in time.
So why don't we get started with the dialogue.
Hey man, I really like your pad.
Those lava lamps are far out.
Thanks for letting me crash here tonight.
It's no problem, brother.
I wanted a pad where people could come, listen to music and just hang loose.
You dig what I'm saying?
I dig it, man.
We should throw a bash here and make it a really happening scene.
Yeah, man.
That would be groovy.
Hey, I got to split for a while.
Are you okay here by yourself?
Don't worry about me, brother.
You go take care of your business.
Peace out.
So great dialogue.
Very popular in the 60s.
The music, the mood and the words, right?
So why don't we get down to business and look at the vocabulary that we saw in this dialogue
Well, the dialogue opened and we heard this guy say, hey man, I really like your pad.
I really like your pad.
Pad.
So pad, a very informal way of saying your apartment, your apartment, right?
And now you can still use it today.
We often hear the expression bachelor pad.
A bachelor pad.
So that's an apartment where a single man lives.
So a bachelor pad.
Usually it's very nicely decorated and really a nice apartment, right?
Or maybe it has empty pizza boxes all over the floor, Marco.
Also a bachelor pad.
But so that's what pad means, an apartment.
They were talking about the apartment and he said the lava lamps are far out.
Far out.
It's far out.
So that's really cool or amazing.
And now lava lamps, those are those strange cone looking lamps, right?
Kind of a light with like some liquid moving inside.
Moving inside.
We'll post some pictures of that.
And the lamps are far out.
So now you can use that with other things, right?
Like you are really far out.
Or this music is really far out.
It kind of gives you the feeling like it's sort of spacey.
So the pad is really far out.
The lava lamps are great.
And he was saying, thanks for letting me crash here tonight.
To crash.
So to crash at someone's place.
So we're not talking about like a car crash here.
But so when you crash somewhere, what do you do?
Well, you are staying there.
Then you're going to stay there.
So you're going to...
As a guest.
So like sleep, right?
So if for example, you're going to New York and you're going to visit a friend, you might
crash at your friend's house.
So interesting word.
And it is quite commonly used now.
So why don't we hear some examples of how we can use it?
Hey man, can I crash at your place tonight?
I lost my key.
So I'm crashing at my girlfriend's house.
No you've been sleeping on my couch for a month.
You're not going to crash here tonight.
So to crash, right?
It's still commonly used today.
Now for the fourth word, groovy.
Groovy.
So again, this means like great or cool or really nice.
This is, I think this is one of the main words of the 1960s.
Everything was groovy.
Yes, I agree.
So it kind of gives you the sense that it's sort of really cool, but in a relaxed way.
Yeah, it's groovy.
This music is really groovy.
And finally, his friend, he said, hey, I got to split for a while.
To split.
So if I say I have to split.
You have to leave.
I have to leave.
Very colloquial.
And it means I have to leave for a little bit.
Split for a while.
We've heard this one before.
So why don't we hear some examples to help you understand how it's used.
We've got to split before the police get here.
This party is boring.
Let's split.
I have to wake up early tomorrow, so we're going to split.
So split.
Now also, I think you can use it for relationships, right?
Me and him, me and her split up.
So you ended your relationship.
Split.
So we saw five really common phrases from the 1960s.
Let's listen to the dialogue again a little bit slower, and then we'll come back and look
at some phrases from the 60s.
I wanted a pad where people could come, listen to music, and just hang loose.
We could throw a bash here and make it a really happening scene.
Well, I want to get started at looking at these 1960s slang phrases.
So let's go now with putting it together.
I'm putting it together today.
Let's start with the first part.
He talked about, you dig what I'm saying?
To dig it.
So we know the verb dig, which means to make a hole, right?
But now he's talking about understand.
Basically, you dig what I'm saying.
And when he says, I dig it, he says, I understand.
And there's also another meaning to this, right?
Apart from understand.
It can also mean I like it.
So I really dig this type of music.
Or I really dig this restaurant.
So it's kind of, I like it.
Now moving on, he said we could throw a bash here.
Throw a bash.
To throw a bash.
So first of all, what is a bash?
A bash is a party.
A really great party.
An amazing party.
Now I want to look at this verb to throw something.
So we know that you throw a ball, right?
But how can you throw a party?
Well, it's basically saying you organize or you host a party.
And how can you use this phrase?
So I can say, last week I threw a birthday party in my house.
Or let's throw a bash to celebrate your engagement.
Or next week I'm going to throw a dinner party at my house.
So to throw a party.
And it's usually used for parties, right?
You wouldn't throw a...
Throw a meeting.
So now we heard them use the word man a lot, right?
Hey man.
Now this is so common, even in modern English, that I think we need some examples.
Hey man, watch where you're going.
Yeah, man, that's a great idea.
Man, that was awesome.
So man is one of those words that you just use at the end of your sentences.
Or the beginning.
Anywhere.
And so you say, hey man, or yeah man.
What about, do you have to be a man to use it?
Or do you have to be talking to a man to use it?
No, not really.
Men and women use the word man.
And you can call a girl like, hey man, how are you?
But that sort of means that she's a really, really good friend.
Like the same level of friend as your guy friends.
And now for the last phrase, I'm putting it together.
He said, you go take care of business.
You take care of business.
So I have to take care of business.
So we're not really talking about business and work here, are we?
So basically what we're saying is, go handle your affairs.
So do the things you have to do.
So, or solve your problems.
So if I say, I have to go to City Hall today and take care of some business.
So you're maybe going to do something like...
Pay my taxes or something like that.
So we heard some great phrases.
We saw these words.
Let's listen to the dialogue for the last time, and then we'll come back and talk about
this great decade.
Yeah, man, that would be groovy.
So 1960s, very famous among rock music, the peace and conflicts and all this stuff.
I guess in English or Anglo pop culture, we look back at this decade very fondly.
And also we really related to the hippie movement, right?
People with long hair and baggy clothes, living in their cars, going from concert to concert.
And I mean, speaking of music, I think if we think 1960s, at least in Anglo world, we
think of the best music.
I think this is the golden age of music in English speaking countries.
Yes, it was a very good era.
And well, what do you guys think?
Do you think the 60s was the best decade or maybe you are more fond of the 70s, the disco
era?
Or even the 90s.
There's some pretty good music in 1994.
So come to our website and let us know what you think.
And also if you have any questions or comments.
So thanks for downloading and until next time.
And today we are going to be talking about the weather.
And you know, Marco, this is a really, really useful and important topic in English, isn't
Exactly, because if you ever travel abroad, you always want to know about the weather,
And Anglo people, English people, all they ever do is talk about the weather.
Well, it's an important topic.
You want to know what clothes to wear or if you should take an umbrella.
Or even when you're making small talk with people.
So we are going to be taking a look at the weather in the United States.
But before we get started with the dialogue, let's take a look at vocabulary preview.
Okay, so we have two words we're going to hear in the dialogue.
Now the first one is forecast.
Weather forecast.
So this is what we listen to or what we see on the television, the weather forecast.
Right, it's like the prediction of the weather.
Okay, so forecast, can I only use it in the weather?
No, of course you can use it in many other different situations, like in business, for
example, forecast sales.
Okay, so the prediction of sales.
And we have one more word on vocabulary preview, a shower.
A shower.
Shower.
So when it rains for a short time and it's not too heavy, that's a shower.
So it's very similar to a shower at home.
A little bit of water.
And it doesn't last too long.
So why don't we listen to our dialogue now.
We are going to be listening to the weatherman as he describes the weather in Utah.
And now let's go to Kenny Williams for today's weather forecast.
Thank you, Bill, and good morning, Salt Lake City.
What's the weather looking like today, Kenny?
Well, it's a bit of a mixed bag in Utah today.
We've got heavy cloud cover here in northern Utah, and we're calling for scattered showers
throughout the day, with a daytime high of 45 degrees.
Now, if we move down to the south of the state, we can see that a cold front is moving in.
We can expect clear skies, but it will be quite cold, with temperatures hovering around
the 30 degree mark.
It's a chilly day, folks, so don't forget your coats.
What about tomorrow, Kenny?
Do you have good news for us?
Well, it'll be a rainy day for northern Utah.
We can expect some isolated downpours in the morning.
Winds will be coming in from the northeast, with gusts reaching 23 miles per hour.
Salt Lake City can expect the rain to turn to sleet in the evening.
Things are looking a bit better for the south.
We'll see cloudy skies with a chance of showers.
Later in the day, we can expect partly cloudy skies with a forecast high of 38 degrees.
You heard it, folks.
It's going to be a cold one.
That's right, Bill.
We'll have more later on today on the 6 o'clock news.
That's the weather forecast for this morning.
All right, so we listened to the weather forecast and it doesn't seem like nice weather in Utah,
huh?
No, it certainly doesn't.
I don't think that I'd really like to live there.
Well, maybe it's winter or something like that.
Well, I guess, yeah, maybe it's good for skiing.
Okay, so now I think it's time for us to take a look at some of those maybe difficult words
that we may have listened to in this dialogue in Language Takeaway.
All right, here we're going to look at some words and phrases that you can use to describe
the weather.
Now, the first one, we heard in the weather forecast that they were calling for scattered
showers.
Scattered showers.
Scatter.
Scattered, if something is scattered.
It's sort of like it's a little bit of that thing everywhere.
Okay, so and we already talked about what showers were.
Right, so shower is a small amount of rain.
To better understand when something is scattered, imagine that we are in a playground and the
children are playing in the playground.
So the children are scattered everywhere.
Some of them are playing on the swing.
Some of them are playing on the grass or in the sandbox.
So children, a little bit of children in every different spot.
So if we think that the city is a playground, maybe in one part of the city there's a little
bit of rain but not in the other part.
That's a scattered shower.
Moving on to our second word, we have hovering.
Hovering.
Temperatures hovering around the 30-degree mark.
The temperature is hovering around.
Okay, so when I say the temperatures are hovering.
You mean it's approximately.
Okay, so they can move up and down.
So maybe it'll be a little bit warmer than 30 degrees or a little bit colder.
So if you think of hovering as floating.
So why don't we listen to some more examples of how we could use hovering in different
Government rates are hovering around the 10% mark despite the government's attempts to
stimulate the economy.
The waiters kept hovering around us all night.
It was really annoying.
The company's margin this year is hovering around the 40% mark.
Okay, so pretty clear.
Hovering is sort of floating around one area.
Now, let's move on to the next part.
We saw that we're going to have isolated downpours.
Isolated downpours.
Okay, let's break this one down.
Let's start with downpour.
A downpour is when you have a lot of rain, very strong rain.
For maybe a short amount of time, it's really raining heavily.
So that's what a downpour is.
And if we take a look at the first word, isolated.
So in one small area.
Okay, confined it to a specific area.
Okay, so we have an isolated downpour.
It'll be raining in one specific area.
And you hear this a lot with weather language.
You hear isolated showers, isolated snow storms.
So it'll be in a specific area only.
So along with these showers and rain, we also talked about wind.
And we heard that we will have gusts reaching 23 miles per hour.
So we're going to have gusts reaching 23 miles per hour.
Gusts of wind.
Okay, so can you explain to our listeners what gusts are?
Okay, so a gust is a sudden increase in the amount of wind.
Okay, so maybe we'll have normal wind and all of a sudden it will get really windy.
For a short amount of time.
Okay, that's a gust.
G-U-S-T, gust.
Gust of wind.
And for our final word on Language Takeaway today, we're going to have sleet.
Sleet.
All right, sleet is a terrible kind of weather.
It's sort of a mixture between snow and rain.
So sleet is kind of this strange mix between ice and rain and snow.
So just imagine, it's not completely ice, so it's not solid, but it's not water, right?
It's not rain.
And it's not snow either.
No, it's in the middle.
All right, so sleet.
But what you really need to know is that it's terrible.
All right, so that's all the words we have today for Language Takeaway.
Let's move on now to Fluency Builder.
All right, in Fluency Builder today, we're going to look at three phrases that are really
common when you're talking about the weather.
Now we heard in the dialogue that there was a cold front moving in.
A cold front moving in.
A cold front is moving in.
Okay, so a cold front.
Imagine a wall of cold air and it comes towards a place and then it changes the pressure in
the atmosphere.
Okay, so a very sudden amount of cold air that comes into a place.
So we say a cold front is moving in.
So we always think of these cold fronts or warm fronts as moving.
So you can either say they're moving in or you can say a cold front is coming in.
And okay, we have a cold front that's moving in and we're going to have winds that will
be coming in from the northeast.
Okay, winds coming in from.
So when I say it's coming in from.
You're talking about its origin, where it starts.
Okay, so if I change the noun and I don't say winds anymore but maybe I'll say my friends.
My friends are coming in from Chicago.
So they are arriving from Chicago.
So what else can I say?
Or you can also say the kids are coming in from outside.
Okay, so where they were before.
So coming in from.
You can change the noun a little bit and you can form these new sentences.
Now our final phrase.
We heard the announcer say it's going to be a cold one.
So I have this phrase, it's going to be a cold one.
What do I mean by a cold one?
Okay, so the one represents the event.
Of the day.
Okay, so it's going to be a cold day.
Now we can obviously change the adjective, right?
So it's going to be a hot one, it's going to be a long one, it's going to be a long
But the one can mean anything.
Okay, so it can be a day, it can be an event.
A meeting.
A project.
So for example, if we're going to a meeting, I might say, hey Marco, this is going to be
a hard one.
Okay, so the one represents the meeting.
A hard meeting.
Alright, I think this is a very good phrase and it's very commonly used, so why don't
we listen to some more examples of how we can use it's going to be a something one.
Temperatures are forecasted to hit 37 degrees today.
It's going to be a hot one, folks.
It's only 8am and I've got a hundred emails already.
It's going to be a long one today.
I haven't studied at all for the exam.
It's going to be a tough one.
Okay, so some great examples and I think it's time for us to listen to this dialogue again
and now we can understand all these words and phrases that we've just talked about.
And now, let's go to Kenny Williams for today's weather forecast.
Thank you Bill and good morning Salt Lake City.
We've got heavy cloud cover here in northern Utah and we're calling for scattered showers
throughout the day with a daytime high of 45 degrees.
We can expect clear skies, but it will be quite cold with temperatures hovering around
Winds will be coming in from the northeast with gusts reaching 23 miles per hour.
Okay, so we know that in English-speaking countries, the weather is always, always,
always a great subject of conversation for small talk, right?
If you ever want to talk to somebody or start a conversation, the weather is always the
number one topic.
And we actually have a phrase in this dialogue that would be great for starting a conversation.
Like for example, imagine if you lived here in Utah and you were, you know, wanting to
start a conversation with someone, you could say, it sure is a cold one today, isn't it?
That's a great way of starting a conversation and English-speaking people love to talk about
the weather, as you say.
So, guys, if you have any questions about weather vocabulary or if you want to practice
talking about the weather, come to our website at EnglishPod.com.
Erika and I are always there to answer any questions or doubts you may have.
And also, if you have any stories about crazy weather maybe in the countries you're from,
let us know.
So, thanks for downloading, you guys, and until next time, goodbye.
And today, we are going to be teaching you a very important technique, especially for
the guys if you want to have good luck with the ladies, right?
Oh, Marco.
Well, today's lesson is called that's flattering.
So we are going to be teaching you how to flatter someone.
So what does it mean to flatter someone?
Well, basically, you're going to be giving compliments and you're going to make that
person feel good about themselves.
So flattering.
Now, before we get on with this flattering lesson, we need to look at some vocabulary
in Vocabulary Preview.
On Vocabulary Preview today, we have two small words.
So the first one is bar exam.
The bar exam.
So the bar exam is that formal test that lawyers must do to become official lawyers.
So it's that final exam in order to finally become a lawyer.
Well, we're also going to hear in the dialogue obnoxious.
Obnoxious.
And it means something that is really, really annoying.
So something can be...
So something can be obnoxious.
Or someone.
So now we have these two words that we're going to listen to in the dialogue.
And now let's listen to two people as they flatter each other in our dialogue.
Valerie.
How have you been?
It's been such a long time.
Oh, Marlene.
Indeed, it's been a while.
Wow, you look amazing.
I love what you've done with your hair.
I went to that hair salon you told me about, but enough about me.
Look at you.
God, you haven't aged a day.
What is your secret?
Well, I've been watching what I eat, and I work out three times a week.
By the way, I heard your son recently graduated.
My little Paul is finally a doctor.
They grow up so fast, you know.
He is such a handsome guy.
He gets his looks from his mother, of course.
What about your daughter, Pamela?
I heard she passed the bar exam and married recently.
She had a beautiful wedding in Cozumel, Mexico, and we all attended.
Such a lovely girl.
I hope my Paul is lucky enough to find a girl like that someday.
But of course.
Well, it's been great talking to you, but I have to get going.
Same here.
We'll catch up soon, maybe over coffee.
That would be great.
Give me a call.
See you soon.
Ugh.
I cannot stand that woman or her obnoxious daughter.
All right, so this is your typical, normal, everyday behavior that women show to each
other, right?
Yeah, I think it's very common.
It's very hard to argue against this because I think everyone does it, or at least you've
heard maybe your mother or your son talk to her friends like this, right?
So pretend you like a person who you actually hate.
You have to be courteous.
I don't know what you're doing to me now.
All right, no, I'm not.
But we can take a look at some of this great language, very rich language that we found
in this dialogue in Fluency Builder.
All right, we're doing things a little bit different in this lesson.
So we're going to do two Fluency Builders.
And in the first one, we're going to focus on language you can use to flatter someone.
In the very first part of the dialogue, we heard Valerie say, I love what you've done
with your hair.
I love what you've done with.
Okay, so if somebody says this, basically they're saying, I like the change you made.
And change not only to your hair, right?
It could be anything.
So I love what you've done with your new house.
Or I can say, I love what you've done with your garden.
It looks so beautiful.
So something that you've changed, you can use this phrase for.
And in this case, it's her hair.
So she is complimenting her on her hair.
We also heard Darlene say, you haven't aged a day.
You haven't aged a day.
So now she is saying that she hasn't gotten any older.
To age is to get older.
So this is a very common way of telling somebody you look great.
You look young.
You look great.
So then they talk about their kids and they're talking about the sun and they, and Valerie
says he's such a handsome guy.
So this structure is important because now I can change the adjective and I am saying
he is very intelligent.
He is such an intelligent guy.
And then this is such a good day.
So now why don't we combine the two phrases that we've just heard?
I love what you've done with and he is such a, and let's listen to some examples.
We love what you've done with this place.
Such a beautiful room.
Such a nice color on you.
I love what you've done with this space.
Such a wonderful garden.
I really like how those two phrases can fit together.
Yeah, they are very good and now you can use them together or separately like in the dialogue.
Now let's move to our final flattering phrase.
Valerie says that Darlene's son gets his looks from his mother.
She says he gets his looks from his mother, of course.
He gets his looks from.
So when she says he gets his looks from, she is saying his appearance.
His positive appearance, his good appearance.
His good looks.
So now we can change the noun and I can say he gets his intelligence from his father.
And then he gets his beautiful singing voice from his mother.
So now typically you would say his mother, his father or maybe one of the grandparents,
Maybe, yeah.
But you wouldn't say he gets his good looks from his brother.
No, no, no, no.
Mother, father, grandma, grandpa.
So now that we've covered four great ways of flattering someone, let's listen to this
dialogue again but we're going to slow it down a little bit so you can pick up on these
Wow how have you been?
Darlene.
It's been a while.
You look amazing.
I went to that hair salon you told me about but enough about me.
Well, I've been watching what I eat and I work out three times a week.
Yes, my little Paul is finally a doctor.
She had a beautiful wedding in Cozumel, Mexico and we all attended.
Well, it's been great talking to you but I have to get going.
Okay, so we see a lot of great flattering language in this dialogue but we also have
some really good language and phrases you can use in small talk in any situation.
So maybe if you talk to a friend that you haven't seen in a while, we have some really
great phrases for, as you say, small talk.
So let's look at those now in Fluency Builder, part two.
Okay, so let's start with the first phrase.
She says, Valerie, hi, wow, how are you?
So basically here she's saying we haven't seen each other in a long time.
But it kind of gives you that idea that she regrets not talking to her for such a long
Yeah, she wishes she could have talked to her.
So a wonderful way to start a conversation.
So when they start talking about their kids, Valerie says, by the way, I heard your son
recently graduated.
So this phrase, by the way, I heard, blah, blah, blah, is really, really useful.
Let's take a look at the first part, by the way.
So this is a way to connect two different ideas or to start a new topic.
And now when she says, I heard your son recently graduated.
So we use this phrase, I heard, when we've got information that we're not sure about.
And also you are demonstrating interest about a certain topic or a news event that you would
like to know about.
And so basically you're asking the other person, tell me about this.
So I can say, hey, by the way, I heard you got married.
So then I'd tell you all about my wedding.
OK, so this is a very common way of talking to someone or getting some more information
from a person.
So let's listen to some more examples of by the way.
By the way, I heard you've recently been promoted.
I heard your daughter just had a baby.
Oh, I heard you just got back from holiday in France.
All right, now, since these two ladies don't like each other very much, they want to end
the conversation, right?
They want to end the conversation.
And, well, you want to end it in a polite way.
So they use a really great phrase here.
They said, it's been great talking to you, but I have to get going.
So it's like, well, it's been great talking to you, but I have to get going.
So it's been great talking to you.
I've enjoyed talking to you.
So this is a very polite, very subtle way of saying, hey, I have to go or bye, I can't
talk anymore.
Yeah, when you say that, you know that the conversation is ending.
Now, she says, I have to get going.
Get going.
That doesn't make much sense.
Basically, it just means leave.
I have to get going.
You should get going.
You're going to be late.
Some really good small talk phrases that are useful in any situation.
So why don't we hear them again?
One more time by listening to the dialogue.
So now you have a couple of phrases that you can use to flatter someone, be it your friend
or somebody that you know or anyone.
And well, they are very, very useful and if you use them correctly, of course.
And these phrases sound really honest and really natural, very native-like.
So, if you have any other questions or comments or if you want to share some other phrases
that you use to flatter people, come to our website at EnglishPod.com and leave them in
our comment section.
So Marco and I have to get going, but we're looking forward to seeing you on the website.
And today we're going to go back to the movies, but this time we're going to do it a little
We're going to be listening as two movie critics offer their opinion on the latest release.
Alright, so we're going to be learning how to criticize or give your opinions about something.
And here we're talking movies, but a lot of this language can be used to offer your criticism
or ideas on literature or art or other artistic pursuits.
Okay, so before we listen to this dialogue for the first time, let's take a look at vocabulary
preview.
Well, we're going to look at one word here that we will hear in the dialogue and it is
erudite.
Erudite.
Okay, so this word erudite.
Some people pronounce it erudite.
And basically it's an adjective describing someone who has a lot of knowledge about a
Okay, so an erudite in engineering.
Yes, or an erudite professor.
So that's the word that we're going to preview today.
And now let's listen to our dialogue and find out what movie they are criticizing.
Welcome back movie lovers to another premiere movie review.
My name is Richard Clark and I am joined today by the very erudite David Watson.
Thank you, Dick.
Today we're going to talk about the movie Lion King.
Tell me, what is your impression of this film?
Well, I think this film is simply a fable depicting man's eternal greed for power.
And in my opinion, it's a very fine film.
Even despite the accusations of plagiarism of traditional folk tales from other countries,
the musical score was amazing.
The animation was very well done and the story was simply enchanting.
I think otherwise.
Even though the animation was technically strong and as you say, the score and songs
performed by Elton John were great.
The film lacks certain originality.
It lacked heart.
And I would dare to say it was too predictable.
Predictable?
How?
Come on, Dave.
It's a G-rated movie.
It's for the kids.
It's not a thriller.
Well, that's just it.
It did have some very dramatic and intense scenes.
For example, when Mufasa dies or the dark, grim portrayal of Scar.
Even so, the film is linear.
Mufasa dies.
Simba runs away thinking it's his fault.
Falls in love and returns to retake what's rightfully his.
It's just too cliche.
How can it be cliche?
It's a fable.
It's telling a time-honored story.
The movie makes a point of how the hunger of power leads to corruption and teaches children
of the value of respect, life, and love.
You have always been so soft, Dick.
Open your heart, Dave.
Don't shut us out.
Anyway, that's all for today, folks.
Join us next time as we talk about How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days.
I'm sure you'll love that one, Dick.
So The Lion King, one of my all-time favorites.
A very good movie and, well, mixed feelings about it, right?
Some people think it's good.
Other people think it's not that good.
I'm in the good camp, as you know.
But anyway, there's tons of really useful and quite difficult language here.
On Language Takeaway today, we have five words and we can start with the first one.
So the first critic said that this was a movie depicting man's eternal greed for power.
Depicting.
To depict.
So this word, depict, it sounds a little bit strange.
So before we explain it, let's take a look at some examples.
I don't really like the way that novel depicted the role of women in society.
It was pretty sexist.
A film depicts the realities of war very accurately.
Apparently this image here is depicting some of the most well-known scenes from Australian
history.
So depicting.
I can basically understand that this means to show something.
Now we can notice that the word depict has this short little word picked in there that
sounds like picture.
And when we think about depicting, we're often thinking about in a picture or in a book or
in a painting.
So in this case, the story is depicted in a movie, right?
So you can see it.
It's a picture, basically.
So to depict.
Well, moving on, the critic also talked about the grim portrayal of the villain of the movie,
Scar.
So grim portrayal.
A grim portrayal.
Let's look at the word grim first.
When something is grim, it's really unpleasant or uncomfortable or even shocking to think
about.
So we're going to use something that is grim.
Now what about portrayal?
Really close to depict.
A portrayal is something that shows or describes something, especially like in a book or in
a picture or in a play.
So a portrayal.
I guess we can relate it again to a portrait.
So portrayal.
Now we can also use this as a verb, to portray.
So this movie portrays man's eternal greed.
So we can use this as a noun or as a verb.
So moving on with our third word today, we have an enchanting movie.
The story was simply enchanting.
So if something is enchanting.
It's really attractive and beautiful and interesting and it holds your attention.
It holds your attention.
So it's something very nice.
Something that is enchanting has to be nice.
And it has this sense of magic around it.
So an enchanting moment.
Or an enchanting woman.
And now what about our next word?
It's a very...
It's French actually, but we use it in English.
So the critics said that this story was cliché.
Cliché.
So we hear this all the time.
What is a cliché?
Well, basically, a cliché is a phrase or an idea that is used so often that it loses
its meaning or importance or interest.
So can you give us some examples of a cliché moment or maybe a phrase that's cliché?
Well, how about this one?
When you're breaking up with your boyfriend and you say, honey, it's not you.
It's me.
That's cliché.
It's typical.
Or maybe a cliché portrayal of a French man would be a guy riding a bike with a baguette,
smoking a cigarette and with a beret on his head.
So it's a cliché portrayal.
So it's common.
It's even to a certain point a little bit stereotypical.
Well, they describe this story as a fable.
Fable.
A fable.
So when we were small, we all read fables.
They are stories about animals that are used to teach people a lesson.
So a fable teaches you a lesson.
I think the most famous one is the one of the tortoise and the hare, right?
And another good one would be the three little pigs.
That's also a fable.
So we've looked at these five great words and now it's time for us to move on to putting
it together.
Here we're going to look at some phrases that you can use in a bunch of different ways to
help you criticize or give your opinion about a piece of art, like a movie or a book or
Let's start with our first word.
So the film critic asked, what is your impression of this film?
What's your impression of?
What's your impression of something, right?
So before we get into explaining impression, let's listen to some more examples.
I don't know where, but I have the impression that we've met before.
I get the impression that he's a very organized person.
Somehow Jim got the impression that I was gay.
Did you tell him that?
So I can see that this means basically, what's your opinion or how do you feel about something?
So you can have an impression of something or of someone.
And what about the next word?
Well, the critic Richard Clark said that it was a really enjoyable film even despite the
accusations of plagiarism.
So now we have an interesting phrase here.
The accusations of plagiarism.
Accusations of plagiarism.
So accusations is a noun, right?
It's the action of accusing.
Of blaming somebody.
And what about plagiarism?
This is an academic term.
If you plagiarize, you copy someone's work and take credit for it.
So if I copy somebody's book and I say I wrote it, then that's plagiarism.
That's pretty bad.
So accusations of plagiarism.
Now we can use this phrase, accusations of something in a bunch of different ways.
So Marco, let's have an example.
So for example, we can say he was cleared of all accusations of tax evasion.
He denied accusations of cheating on his wife.
So accusations.
And now moving on to the final part of putting it together, we have this word lacks.
The film lacks a certain originality.
So the film lacks a certain originality.
It doesn't have enough of.
So if you are lacking something, you don't have enough of it.
Or you don't have it at all.
So can you give us some more examples of how we can use lack?
So the same way it's used in the dialogue, our team lacks the appropriate talent to complete
this project.
Or I can say, our school lacks infrastructure for so many students.
Or we can also say, infrastructure is lacking at our school.
So you can use it in those two ways, right?
You can use it as a gerund or as a verb.
Lots of great language here.
Let's hear it one more time in context with the dialogue.
Tell me what is your impression of this film?
Well, I think this film is simply a fable.
Rising man's eternal greed for power.
I think otherwise, even though the animation was technically strong and as you say, the
score and songs performed by Elton John were great.
Mufasa dies, Simba runs away thinking it's his fault, falls in love and returns to retake
what's rightfully his.
The movie makes a point of how the hunger for power is a part of the story.
All right, so a good movie.
What do you think about The Lion King?
What do you think about his critique?
Well, I am with Dick on this one.
I think that this is a great film.
It was one of my favorites and I've seen it about five billion times.
You really liked it?
But I'm not interested in my opinion.
I want to hear criticisms and film criticisms from our users.
So come to our website at EnglishPod.com where you can leave your questions, your comments,
and also any criticisms on this particular movie or maybe the other one that we mentioned,
How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days.
Personally, not so fond of that one, but looking forward to hearing from our users.
Or maybe any other movies you might like.
So come to the website and until next time.
I'll watch Kill Bill at the end.
Welcome back to another lesson here with us at EnglishPod.
And today we are going to have a very casual, normal conversation.
We're going to listen in on some small talk between a taxi driver and the passenger.
Small talk.
So that's basically...
Mm, small, short conversations you have with someone that you don't know very well.
And you can ask them simple questions like how old are you, where you're from, etc.
And this can be really hard for English learners because they often don't know what the right
thing to say or the right thing to talk about.
So we're going to give you a lot of phrases in this lesson that you can use in small talk.
So we don't have anything to preview today.
So let's listen to the dialogue for the first time and then we'll come back.
Where to, miss?
Crenshaw and Hawthorne at the Holiday Inn that is on that corner.
Sure thing.
So where are you flying in from?
From China.
You don't look very Chinese to me if you don't mind me saying so.
I am actually from Mexico.
I was in China on a business trip visiting some local companies that manufacture bathroom
products.
Wow, sounds interesting.
Excuse me if I'm being a bit nosy, but how old are you?
Don't you know it's rude to ask a lady her age?
Don't get me wrong.
It's just that you seem so young and already doing business overseas.
Well, thank you.
In that case, I am 26 years old.
And what about yourself?
I'm 40 years old and was born and raised here in the good old US of A, although I have some
Colombian heritage.
That's great.
Do you speak Spanish?
¡Qué bien! Entonces podemos hablar en español.
Alright, so I don't think this guy spoke much Spanish, do you?
No, even though he has Colombian heritage, I think he doesn't speak much.
But maybe he's just a little bit rusty.
But what he does speak is English.
And since this is EnglishPod, why don't we look at some of the phrases that they used
for small talk in Fluency Builder?
Alright, so today on Fluency Builder, we're going to take a look at phrases that both
the passenger and the taxi driver used to make small talk.
Alright, so the taxi driver tells the passenger that she doesn't look very Chinese if you
don't mind me saying so.
Right, so he said, you don't look very Chinese to me if you don't mind me saying so.
If you don't mind me saying so.
So what does he mean by this last part of his sentence?
Well this is a phrase that we use to soften a statement that might be a little bit rude.
She could be Chinese, right?
So it may be a little bit rude to say that, but he kind of apologizes.
By saying, if you don't mind me saying so.
Okay, so for example, I could say, hey Marco, you look a little tired today if you don't
mind me saying so.
Okay, so does it always go at the end?
You could use it at the beginning.
If you don't mind me saying so, I just don't think this is a good idea.
So you can use this phrase in the beginning or at the end of a sentence.
Right, and it makes your statement a little bit less rude.
Now again, he also apologizes a little bit when he says, excuse me if I am being a bit
nosy, but.
Excuse me if I'm being a bit nosy, but.
Okay, so let's take a look at this.
Nosy, what's this?
Okay, when somebody is nosy, it means they are very curious.
They are asking too many questions.
Yeah, asking more questions than they should ask.
Right, so he apologizes and says, well, excuse me if I'm asking too many questions, and then
he asks her another question.
He asks her how old she is.
Right, so again, it's a polite way of maybe asking a question that might be a little bit
sensitive.
Yeah, or a little bit impolite.
Okay, so of course, asking a woman her age maybe is a little bit impolite, right?
Yes, typically women don't like that too much.
But our next phrase, we heard the taxi driver say, don't get me wrong.
Okay, so don't get me wrong.
He says, well, don't misunderstand what I'm saying.
This phrase is used so commonly in English that I think it would help us to hear some
It's not that I think you stole my computer.
It's just that you were the only one who could get into my room.
I do have a few problems with the plan, but don't get me wrong.
I still think it's a good idea.
I think John's a nice guy.
He's just a bit disorganized.
All right, very good example.
So don't get me wrong, right?
And now for the final phrase on putting it together today.
Well, the passenger, the woman says her age, she says, I'm 26 years old.
What about yourself?
Now, this sentence isn't very correct, actually, right?
Yeah, technically, it's not correct in grammar, but it is used so commonly every day by American
English speakers that we thought we'd show it to you.
Okay, so you would say, I am 26 years old and what about you?
Okay, but commonly you will hear people say, what about yourself?
And if you use this, you'll sound really fluent and really native like.
So what about yourself?
So again, it's just like, what about you?
So I could say, hey, Marco, I'm going away on holiday this weekend.
Okay, what about yourself?
So we've taken a look at these four phrases on putting it together.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue for the second time?
We're going to slow it down a little bit, and then we'll come back and take a look at
some vocabulary words on Language Takeaway.
Where to miss?
Hi, Crenshaw and Hawthorne at the Holiday Inn that is on that corner.
You don't look very Chinese to me, if you don't mind me saying so.
I was in China on a business trip, visiting some local companies that manufacture bathroom
I am 40 years old and was born and raised here in the good old US of A, although I have
some Colombian heritage.
Do you speak some Spanish?
¡Qué bien!
Entonces podemos hablar en español.
Well, we've got some interesting vocabulary words and phrases here in Language Takeaway.
And the first one...
Well, after she gets in the taxi and tells him where she wants to go, he answers by saying
sure thing.
So, if I say, yeah, sure thing, what does that mean?
Well, let's listen to some examples to help us understand.
Do you mind lending me a hundred bucks?
Could you please send me the email by the end of the day?
Example four.
Can you get some milk on the way home?
I'm on my way now.
Okay, so sure thing, basically, yeah, no problem or okay.
Or I'll do it.
I'll do it.
So, it's a very common way you will hear this a lot when somebody agrees or says yes, no
problem.
Yeah, and again, it will help you sound really native-like to use this phrase.
Well, the next one, the taxi driver says, I was born and raised here.
I was born and raised here.
Born and raised.
Okay, so this is a way of saying I was born in this country and I haven't left this country.
So, I'm from this country.
Born and raised here in the good old US of A.
Good old US of A. The good old US of A.
So, this is a pretty interesting way of saying America.
It's actually more of a phrase, right?
The good old US of A. Yep.
So, it means the good United States of America.
Yeah, it's kind of a fond way or a friendly way of describing America.
And we have one more word for language takeaway.
Well, the taxi driver was talking about his Colombian heritage.
Heritage.
So, if I have Colombian heritage, what does that mean?
Your grandmother or, you know, grandfather, great-grandmother or someone in your family
is from Colombia.
And what about the word heritage by itself?
Yeah, so your heritage is basically your culture, your...
Customs.
Yeah, your customs, your history.
So, heritage.
A country rich in heritage.
Lots of good old historical culture in that country.
So, now it's time for us to listen to the dialogue for the last time.
Now we can understand all these phrases and these great words that we've just looked at.
So, where are you flying in from?
I'm 40 years old and was born and raised here in the good old US of A.
Although, I have some Colombian heritage.
So, Marco, this taxi driver makes a bit of a mistake when he asks the woman how old
she is.
Yes, yeah, exactly.
There are a couple of questions that in some cultures are considered to be normal and okay,
but in other cultures, they're not really well accepted.
Okay, so in Anglo culture, for example, it's really impolite to ask a woman how old she
Women are a little bit more sensitive about their age.
Others aren't so much, but it's usually better to just not ask.
And what else should we avoid talking about in Small Talk?
Well, for example, when you ask a person their occupation, you can ask what they do for a
living, but don't ask how much money they make.
Anglo people are really sensitive about talking about money.
We hate talking about money.
So, don't ask somebody their salary or how much money they make.
It's just not considered to be polite.
And another good one to be careful of is asking if someone is married or not.
Sometimes you're just being friendly and you want to know if that person has family or
something, but you have to be careful when and where you ask this question.
If they've mentioned their family, if they've talked about their kids or something else
to do with their family, then it's okay.
You can say, well, oh, how long have you been married?
But if a guy asks a girl, oh, are you married?
It kind of sounds like maybe he's interested in her or that he's trying to come on to
her and to be maybe more than friendly, right?
So, some great Small Talk tips and phrases here at EnglishPod.
Now, if you have any questions about this lesson or any other lessons, be sure to visit
And if you also have any doubts about which questions you think are appropriate of asking
somebody, yeah, come into the website and let us know.
So, thanks for downloading, you guys.
Welcome back to another edition here with us at EnglishPod.
And today we are doing the third part of our Old English series and today we're transported
back to the 1970s.
So we're going to learn some 1970s slang, some phrases that were really popular back
in the 70s but are also still in use today.
So it's going to be a very cool lesson today.
And before we start with the dialogue, let's take a look at some of the words that we're
going to find in Vocabulary Preview.
Well we have two words for you in Vocabulary Preview and they're both found in the dialogue.
The first one, roller rink.
A roller rink.
Okay, so a roller rink.
Let's break that down and let's look at the first part.
So roller.
You might recognize this from roller blades or roller skates.
Okay, so yeah, when you go roller blading, roller skating, those things that you put
on your feet to skate.
Right, wheels, not like a blade or a knife.
So that's roller.
And what about rink?
Rink is the place where you do skating.
Okay, so if you go to a roller rink, it's this big area where everyone can roller blade
or roller skate.
A block.
Block.
Okay, so this is a noun, a block.
And a block is a part of a city that is surrounded by four streets.
Okay, so a city is made up of many blocks.
And everyone lives on a block.
So it's a square within the city.
So these are the two words that we previewed and we're going to listen to them now in the
We're going to hear two guys just talking about normal everyday things, but we're going
to be listening to them in 1970.
Hey man, how's it hanging?
Hey man, everything is just groovy, baby.
Did you go to the roller rink on Saturday?
I heard it was far out, man.
I wanted to, but I ran into this foxy lady that just moved to my block.
I was chatting her up a bit and then we mellowed out at her place.
Right on, right on.
Well, Jim went to the rink with Sherry and he said it was dynamite.
He was low on bread, but Sherry paid for everything.
Gravy!
Jim is such a jive turkey, man.
He's always hitting me up for cash.
Anyway, you want a book and go grab some grub?
OK, groovy dialogue.
Yeah, really nice, huh?
Alright, so some interesting language in here.
Like we said, it sounds a bit strange, but a lot of this is still used today in modern
English.
So why don't we look at some of these words in Language Takeaway.
Alright, on Language Takeaway today, we have the first word, far out.
That was far out.
To be far out.
OK, so it's just another way of saying cool.
Cool, that was nice.
It was really cool.
So they went to the roller rink, it was far out, it was really cool, but the other guy
couldn't go because he saw a foxy lady.
A foxy lady.
OK, foxy lady.
So basically a foxy lady is a really good looking or sexy woman.
Right, commonly you would hear some men refer to an attractive woman as a fox.
OK, so foxy lady.
Now, Marco, can we say a foxy man?
No, this is a phrase that you would only use for women.
Foxy lady.
So after he met up with the foxy lady, they both just decided to mellow out at her place.
To mellow out.
OK, so mellow out.
What does this mean exactly?
Basically just to relax.
Right, so to relax, to take it easy, to mellow out.
So what did you do on the weekend?
Oh, nothing.
I just stayed at home and mellowed out.
Alright, and so the response to that was...
Right on.
Right, right on, right on.
And so basically they're saying, OK, good, I agree.
Yeah, this phrase, you can say as good, yeah, that's nice, or you can also say it as well,
correct, correct, I agree.
So why don't we listen to some examples of how we can use this word in other situations.
You got a high score.
That's amazing.
You got the job?
Jenny was right when she told me she thought Rick was no good for me.
I should have listened to her.
OK, so I think that's pretty clear.
We can see how it means correct or also OK, good.
Alright, right on.
And now we also have another word that's similar to far out.
He said gravy.
Gravy.
Now, if you look it up in a dictionary, it's going to tell you something else, right?
Gravy is a sauce you put on meat.
But in this case, we say gravy is cool.
It's nice.
So gravy.
And now, finally, at the end of their conversation, they said, wanna book?
OK, let's book.
Book.
So, to book is a verb.
Yeah, interesting verb.
It basically means to leave a place quickly.
OK, so we have to book.
The police are coming.
Or, I got to book, guys.
I'm late.
So, book.
To leave quickly, to leave suddenly.
And that word is used quite commonly today, isn't it?
It's used among like younger people.
You would say, yeah, let's book.
This party is dead.
OK, great.
So, there's a lot of pretty cool phrases in this dialogue.
Pretty groovy phrases.
Why don't we hear them again in context?
Hey, man.
How's it hanging?
Everything is just groovy, baby.
I was chatting her up a bit, and then we mellowed out at her place.
Well, Jim went to the rink with Sherry, and he said it was dynamite.
Anyway, you want to book and go grab some grub?
So, now that we understand these six words that we saw in Language Takeaway, it's time
for us now to take a look at some great phrases that we can use today in Fluency Builder.
So, at the start of the conversation, there was an interesting way he started talking
to his friend, right?
He said, how's it hanging?
So, basically, how is it going?
Now, you notice in the spelling that we do have a G at the end, I-N-G, right?
Yeah, but usually you don't really pronounce the G in this context because it's very informal.
So, how's it hanging?
He said everything was just groovy and then he started telling him about how he met a
girl and he chatted her up a bit.
To chat her up.
So, to chat somebody up.
So, when you chat someone up, you talk with them, right?
Yeah, you're making conversation.
But it's more than just conversation, isn't it?
Yeah, you're trying to be a little bit flirty and maybe say nice romantic phrases or something
like that.
Yeah, so usually it's between a woman and a man, right?
And it's the man who chats up the woman.
So, a little bit of a sexist phrase here.
To chat someone up or to chat up a girl, right?
OK, so he was chatting her up.
And so they were talking about how Jim went to the roller rink but he didn't have any
money, right?
Because Jim is always hitting his friends up for cash.
OK, so to hit someone up.
To hit someone up.
So, before we explain this word, let's listen to some other examples so then we can maybe
understand the meaning.
Can you believe Patrick?
He came up to me a month ago and tried to hit me up for some money.
When I was a kid, I used to always hit my dad up for lunch money.
This is the last time I lend you money.
Don't even try to hit me up for more.
All right, so when you hit someone up for something, you ask for it.
So usually it's to ask for money, right?
And now for our last phrase.
Let's book and let's go grab some grub.
To grab some grub.
Grab some grub.
OK, let's break this one down.
With the final word, grub, what are we talking about?
Grub is an informal way of saying food.
OK, so to grab some grub is to get some food quickly.
Yeah, let's go get some food.
All right, so maybe it's time for us to grab some grub.
And while we're doing that, you can listen to the dialogue one last time.
Yeah, man, I'm starving.
All right, so some interesting phrases and even though some of these words you may not
really commonly hear anymore, they might still be used in movies or something that's related
to the disco era because it's very, very popular still, right?
And some of our more advanced users could even use a lot of these phrases in a kind
of funny way to reference back to 1970.
So it's fun and well, you will use them or you will hear them from time to time, even
And remember, if you have any questions about the language you hear in these lessons, check
out our website at EnglishPod.com.
We're there to answer any questions and we'll see you guys there.
X
Welcome back to another podcast here with us at EnglishPod.
And today we have an advanced lesson for all of you and a very good one because we're going
to be talking about a very serious topic, global warming.
And you know, even though most people agree that global warming is a big problem, there's
still this sort of fringe element of people who believe that actually global warming doesn't
exist.
And that's what we're going to be looking at today.
But before we tell you more or less what the dialogue is about, let's take a look at some
words in vocabulary preview.
We're going to look at two words here and you'll hear both of these in the dialogue.
So the first one is polar ice caps.
Polar ice caps.
So when we talk about polar ice caps, polar is...
Like the poles.
The poles, right?
The north and south poles of the earth.
So the extreme...
The top and bottom.
The top and bottom of the planet.
And what about ice caps?
So the polar ice caps are masses of ice that live or that exist on the top and the bottom
of the world.
We have these big chunks of ice that are on the top at the bottom of the planet.
They're there all year round.
So these are the polar ice caps.
Well, next word is endangered species.
An endangered species.
So what is an endangered species?
It's a type of animal that is at risk of completely dying out.
So it's not completely extinct.
So they're still...
It's in danger.
In danger of.
So an example of endangered species would be...
The Bengal tigers.
The tigers or the pandas.
Or maybe gorillas.
So all of these animals, there are very few of them left in the world.
So they are endangered species.
So with that, I think we're just about ready to turn to our dialogue.
Now here we're going to learn a lot of language that you can use when you want to make an
argument or express your point of view in a very sort of academic way.
But Marco, what are we arguing about here?
So we're going to listen as a college professor is lecturing about global warming and well,
one of the students doesn't really agree with what he's saying.
And therefore, global warming is the greatest deception of the early 21st century.
Questions?
In the lecture you said there's more evidence in the scientific record supporting global
cooling.
Essentially, the historical record supports a theory of climate cycles.
Warming and cooling are cooperating processes in the planetary ecosystem.
If that's true and the planet is getting cooler, what explains the rapid melting of the polar
ice caps and the dramatic rise in the global average temperatures?
That are global temperatures rising.
If you look at the data from 1975, you'll-
You'll be misled.
If you were serious, you would look at the record starting in the 1880s.
Then you would see how dramatically the Earth's temperature has changed.
Young lady, I beg to differ.
Look, the point of the lecture was to emphasize that there's evidence for both sides.
And I'm putting forth the argument that there's greater evidence in support of the global
cooling hypothesis.
Look, it's an indisputable fact that the public is being manipulated and scared into believing
that there's some kind of climate crisis.
This scaremongering is done quite simply for political reasons.
But even without the uncomfortable reality that greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide
contribute to global warming, isn't the topic appropriate for politicians to discuss?
Not if they want to use your tax dollars and mine to fund completely unnecessary initiatives.
Yeah, like conservation, protecting endangered species, and investing in renewable energy.
At the very least, you have to concede that this debate has the potential to end our dependence
on foreign oil.
Buying oil supports autocratic countries that use these revenues to devastating ends.
I've never been so disrespected in all of my days.
I'm a professor, a scientist, and a researcher of high regard.
Yeah, and a duplicitous one at that.
Everyone knows you're in the pocket of the oil lobby.
Why should we trust your so-called findings more than tobacco institute studies, which
say smoking doesn't harm health?
You're full of it.
Some people just cannot handle civil debate.
All right, so apparently this college professor is not very truthful in what he's saying,
Well, yeah, maybe he believes it, but they certainly have very strong and differing opinions.
So that's the interesting part is that we heard a lot of language that she used to argue
her point of view.
So this is interesting and we can start now looking at some of this language in Language
So the college professor was arguing against this idea of global warming and she said,
look, it's an indisputable fact.
Okay, an indisputable fact.
An indisputable fact.
Okay, so let's break it down and let's take a look at this word, indisputable.
You can't argue against it.
Okay, so something indisputable is you can't argue with it and will affect something that's
true.
Okay, so you can't argue with this piece of information.
Indisputable fact.
So why don't we give a few examples?
It's an indisputable fact that China is the most populous nation on earth.
Or it's an indisputable fact that EnglishPod is the best podcast out there.
Indeed, it is indisputable.
So indisputable fact and what about our next word?
Well, the student accused the professor of scaremongering.
Scaremongering.
Okay, now this is kind of a strange word, scaremongering.
Yeah, and I think some examples will help us to understand the meaning a little bit
better.
Software flaws are not the same as virus attacks and saying otherwise is just scaremongering.
There's been a lot of scaremongering caused by the rumor that mobile phones cause cancer.
Okay, so basically we understand that it's kind of putting fear in people's minds.
Yeah, it's sort of like selling fear for your own benefit.
Okay, so making people afraid for some objective or some purpose.
Yeah, and you know, this word reminds me of the word a fishmonger.
Okay, a fishmonger.
Which is basically a seller of fish.
So a scaremonger is a seller of fear.
Okay, interesting.
So now we have a way of remembering it.
All right, and moving on to our next word, we have autocratic.
Autocratic.
An autocratic country.
So an autocratic country is ruled by someone who holds total power.
Okay, so we have an autocratic country.
So basically we have a leader that rules everything, right?
So if we apply it not only to a country, we can say a person is autocratic.
Yeah, you could say, I can't stand my boss's autocratic leadership style.
Or maybe a company.
This company is a very autocratic organization.
The student accused the professor of being duplicitous.
Okay, so she said he is duplicitous.
Yes, duplicitous.
All right, what does that mean?
When you are duplicitous, you have behavior that is dishonest and is designed to trick
people.
Okay, so you're not a very honest person if you're duplicitous.
Yeah, you're telling lies as a means of making people do something or tricking them.
So a duplicitous person or a duplicitous idea maybe?
All right, so these are all the words that we have on language takeaway today.
But now let's move on to some very interesting phrases that we can use to put forward some
arguments in Fluency Builder.
Okay, and Marco, you actually just mentioned our first phrase, which is I'm putting forth
the argument that.
Okay, so putting forth the argument that.
So if you put forth an argument.
You present it.
You present it or you push it towards somebody.
Yeah, you give it.
So can we just put forth an argument?
Well actually you can put forth a lot of things, like put forth a suggestion.
Okay, I'm putting forth a suggestion that we should get a new computer.
Or an idea.
Tim put forth the idea that we should go on vacation to Hawaii.
Oh, good idea.
All right, so you can put forth many different things.
So the professor obviously is putting forth the argument that global warming is a myth
and the student obviously totally disagreed and she said you have to concede that.
Okay, you have to concede that.
You have to concede that.
All right, so this word concede or you have to concede.
Why don't we listen to some examples before we listen to the meaning.
I'm sorry, but I can't concede with you on this point.
Julie conceded that she might have forgotten her sister's birthday.
Both philosophers conceded that their philosophies have some errors.
Okay, so you have to concede that.
Basically you have to agree that this one point in my argument is true.
Maybe you're arguing many different points with somebody but you tell them, well, you
have to concede that the earth is round.
Okay, so that part I can't argue with.
It's really true.
So concede.
Now, at the end of the dialogue, the student accused the professor of being in the pocket
of the oil lobby.
Okay, so he's in the pocket of.
To be in the pocket of.
All right, so if I have somebody in my pocket, what does that mean?
It means basically you're bribing them.
Okay, so maybe I have the senator in my pocket.
Okay, so obviously you're paying the senator to do what you want.
So it's another way, it's a very informal way of saying I'm bribing somebody or that
person is being bribed.
So why don't we move to our final phrase.
The student was talking about the professor's so-called findings.
Okay, so your so-called findings.
So-called.
So this word so-called.
You use this word when you want to take away from the importance of an idea.
All right, so I use it before a noun, right?
Okay, so for example, my so-called friends.
Okay, so these friends are not really your friends maybe.
So yeah, they're friends in name but they don't act like friends.
Okay, so you can say my so-called job.
Okay, so maybe you kind of go to work but do nothing all day.
Right, or maybe you don't even really like what you do.
Right, so my so-called job, my so-called friends or maybe my so-called teacher.
Okay, so this is a bad teacher.
So we use it a lot with many different nouns, right?
So that's our last phrase for fluency builder.
Now I think it'll help us to understand these words and phrases a little bit better to hear
them again in context.
And therefore global warming is the greatest deception of the early 21st century.
Yeah, in the lecture you said there's more evidence in the scientific record supporting
global cooling?
But are global temperatures rising?
If you look at the data from 1975, you'll...
Look, the point of the lecture was to emphasize that there is evidence for both sides.
So interesting ways of putting forth arguments.
And well, it's an interesting topic and very controversial, right?
But what I noticed in this dialogue is that the student was pretty assertive in putting
forth her argument and standing up to the teacher.
And she was with the teacher a lot.
And this is interesting because it's a very cultural aspect, I think, right?
In North American universities, there is this idea that it's really important to think critically
and to argue against different ideas and to really speak up when you don't agree with
something.
So basically, there's this culture of questioning, not only what you're being taught, but you
can also question the teacher.
You don't actually have to believe everything that the teacher is saying.
And I think this situation is really interesting.
You know, you always go to these lectures and there's always a question and answer period
at the end of the lectures.
And I think that there's like this group of sort of academically minded people who feel
like it's really cool to ask these really difficult questions and engage in arguments
with the profs.
Yeah, yeah, that's really true.
But actually, she used a lot of polite language and a lot of polite ways of actually arguing
with the professor until the last point when she said, you're full of it.
Yeah, you're full of it.
So what's she saying here?
She's basically saying that you're full of shit.
So yeah, you wouldn't really say that.
So to be a little bit less rude, you would just say, you're full of it.
But that is one step too far.
I think this would be considered a little bit rude.
For a professor, yeah.
But I guess if you don't believe what your friend is telling you, or maybe he's exaggerating,
you can say, oh, you're full of it.
So we've covered some great argumentative language here in this dialogue, but we want
to give you an opportunity to try out some of this language.
We are there to answer any questions or doubts, and we'll see you guys there.
Until next time, goodbye.
And today we have another romantic lesson, kind of romantic.
A little romantic.
We got a boyfriend and a girlfriend and they're apologizing to each other.
Okay, so it's a very common situation and we're going to be talking about love.
We're also going to talk about different pet names that are commonly used in English.
That are used with your boyfriend or girlfriend.
So let's listen to this dialogue for the first time and see what's happening with our couple.
Can we talk?
You know what I mean.
I want to know where this relationship is going.
I'm in love with you and I need to know.
I'm awesome.
Well I guess that's my answer, isn't it?
Look, if you don't love me, it's not a thing, alright?
We've had our laughs, but I don't appreciate...
Maybe it's just time we...
Baby, I love you so much.
I love you and I think you're awesome.
Oh, I love you too.
Come on, put the gun down.
Oh baby, I'm so sorry.
Okay, so romantic and dramatic.
Yeah, I think she really needed to hear that shh.
Right, so I think she really wanted to hear I love you.
And there's some interesting phrases here in this dialogue and today we're going to
focus mostly on phrases.
So why don't we start with Fluency Builder.
Okay, on Fluency Builder today, we're going to take a look at some of these phrases and
the first one is very important and very different.
So obviously this dialogue is about love and we heard two different ways that this word
is used and the first one is to love someone.
Right, so he said, I love you.
Yeah, I love you.
We all pretty much understand what that means.
Right, but they also mentioned to be in love with someone.
Okay, so he said, I am in love with you.
I'm in love with you.
In love.
Okay, so what's the difference between to love and to be in love?
To be in love with someone means that you have these strong romantic feelings towards
So you can only be in love with your boyfriend, your girlfriend, your husband or your wife.
So you can love your parents, you can love your family, but you can't be in love with
You can only be in love with your girlfriend, boyfriend, husband, wife.
So moving on to the next phrase.
Now the girl asked her boyfriend, can we talk?
This is a very simple sentence.
Right, we know the meaning, right?
But why does she say, can we talk?
Okay, so you use this when you want to start a conversation about something serious.
Okay, so if you wanted to talk to me about my new shirt.
I wouldn't ask, I wouldn't say, hey Marco, can we talk?
Oh, I really like your shirt.
Where'd you get it?
Exactly, right?
It has to be serious.
So usually if somebody says, hey, can we talk?
It means that there's going to be a serious topic.
It's going to be probably bad news.
Maybe bad news.
So can we talk?
So if your boyfriend or girlfriend tells you this, well, it's not a good sign.
And the last phrase that we have on Fluency Builder, you know what I mean.
So again, this phrase is very simple to understand, right?
So you know what I'm talking about.
You understand me.
But the interesting thing is that we can also make it a question.
And it's all about the change in tone.
Okay, so with this in mind, let's listen to two examples of the same phrase but with different
tones and you try to see which one is the question.
I'm tired of doing nothing all day here at home.
You know what I mean?
Come on, Charles.
You know what I mean when I say that I don't like your friends.
I hate this class.
It's so boring and tedious.
So we heard the examples and well, maybe you guessed it right.
The second example was the question.
So basically, you're asking the person if they understand your idea or they understand
what you're talking about.
So maybe you can say, the professor wasn't very clear on his instructions.
So how was I supposed to do the homework?
So you're asking me to confirm that I understand you.
My idea.
You understand what I'm saying?
So you might say, hey, I don't like going to your mom's house.
So I would say, what?
So I perfectly understand or know the reasons why you don't like going to my mom's house.
Like I don't have to tell you.
So you know what I mean.
So we've taken a look at these four phrases.
They're very simple, but the way that you use them gives them different meanings.
So let's listen to our dialogue for the second time.
Just slow it down a little bit, and then we'll come back and look at some more phrases.
Sure, honey.
We're talking now, aren't we?
I'm in love with you, and I need to know...
You know, I think you're awesome.
Well, I guess that's my answer, isn't it?
Honey.
Look, if you don't love me, it's not a thing, all right?
I love you, and I think you're awesome.
Oh, baby, I'm so sorry.
Okay, so now it's time for us to take a look at some more phrases, but this time we're
going to look at them in putting it together.
Okay, we're going to see how we can use these phrases in a few different situations.
So the girl wanted to talk to her boyfriend because she wanted to know where this relationship
is going.
Where is this relationship going?
So she wants to know what's going to happen or what's...
What's the future.
What's the future of this relationship?
Are we going to get married?
Are we just...
So why don't we listen to some examples with different nouns and how we can use this phrase?
I don't know where my career is going in this company.
I don't see any potential for growth.
This movie is so confusing.
I have no idea where the plot is going.
We have been in this meeting for over two hours and I still don't know where it's going.
Okay, so again, this phrase is just asking about the future of something.
So where the future of this movie, where is this movie going?
Yeah, what's happening?
What's going to happen?
Or your career, etc.
So, she was talking a little bit about her feelings and she said, maybe it's just time
we...
So this phrase isn't complete yet.
We need to finish it.
But she is basically saying, maybe we should do this.
How can we finish the phrase?
So she could say, maybe it's just time we break up.
Or I can say, maybe it's time we have a baby.
And maybe it's time we go home.
So it's getting late, let's go home.
Maybe it's time we go home.
So this is how we can finish this phrase.
And what about our last phrase?
So she also said, we've had our laps.
So that means we've had our good times.
But we can change this to, we've had our ups and downs.
Or we've had our moments.
So that means we've had our good moments and our bad moments.
Or we've had our issues.
So that means we've had some problems.
We've had some difficulties.
Or even we've had our moments.
So that means we've had...
Special times.
So that means we've had our special times, special occasions that we will always remember.
So three really useful structures that you can change the words a little bit to slightly
change the meaning.
So it's time for us to listen to our dialogue for the last time.
Now we're ready to understand everything.
And then we'll come back and give you some examples of pet names in English.
I'm in love with you and I need to know...
Look, if you don't love me, it's not a thing.
Oh, baby.
Well, Marco, you mentioned this word pet names.
And what exactly is that?
So pet names aren't names for your dogs or your cats.
So pet names that you would call your boyfriend or girlfriend.
So like baby.
In our dialogue, we heard baby.
So we're not talking about a little...
A little child.
This is usually how you would call maybe your girlfriend or boyfriend, baby.
Or honey.
Hey, honey.
Or honey, I'm home.
But we also have other ones like sweetheart or...
Darling.
Or what about sweetie or cutie?
Cutie.
I think these phrases can be a little bit like cheesy maybe.
A little too sweet.
Too much.
Like snookums.
Snookums.
Or honey bunny.
You also have sweetie pie.
And some of them will make some up, right?
Maybe they'll call their boyfriend poo bear.
Like Winnie the Pooh, poo bear.
I heard dumpling is a common one.
So, you can make up your own pet names, right?
So, I want to hear from our listeners.
Are there any common pet names in your language?
I know that in Spanish, we can sometimes call our girlfriend gorda, which actually means
fat.
But it's not in a bad way.
It's a sweet way of calling your girlfriend.
And I know in French, you can say ma pouce, which basically means my flea.
So, some of them, if you translate, you wouldn't really use in English.
But let us know.
Translate from your language or other ones that you've heard maybe in movies or talk
shows.
And come to our website, EnglishPod.com.
Leave your questions there as well as your pet names.
And Marco and I are always happy to see you there.
And today we're bringing you another part of our sports series and this time it's an
advanced lesson.
We're heading to the mountains today to take a skiing lesson.
Alright, so we're going to be learning about skiing, a winter sport and very popular throughout
the world.
But before we get started, why don't we take a look at a couple of words in Vocabulary
Alright, so we're going to hear these two words in our dialogue.
The first one is fresh powder.
Fresh powder.
Okay, so powder.
We probably know this phrase already.
Yeah, but here we're talking about fresh light snow.
So fresh light snow, snow that recently fell.
Okay, so it looks like powder.
The best kind for skiing on.
Okay, the best kind.
Alright, so fresh powder.
Well, we're also going to meet a four-time giant slalom champion.
Alright, a four-time giant slalom champion.
Okay, so giant slalom is a type of ski race.
When you probably see it on TV when they go down the hill and they have to go through
these red or blue flags, right?
Now, four-time giant slalom champion means he won the giant slalom four times.
That's an interesting way of saying that somebody did something many times.
So I can say the three-time Nobel Prize winner.
Or the five-time Olympic gold medalist.
So now it's time for us to go to the mountains with our famous Rick Fields and Bob Copeland
and we'll see what happens.
Welcome, ski lovers of all ages.
My name is Rick Fields and here with me is the man that needs no introduction, Bob Copeland.
What a beautiful day here in Aspen, Colorado, where the sun is shining and we've got 12
inches of fresh powder.
It doesn't get much better than this.
That's right, Bob.
But today we have a special treat for our viewers.
We're joined here by Ian Russe, four-time giant slalom champion.
And on this special edition of the show, Ian is going to teach us the basics of skiing.
So let's hit the slopes.
Well, first off, let's get those boots on.
You're going to want to make sure your boots fit snugly.
Now snap them into your bindings.
And you're also going to want a good pair of goggles to protect your eyes.
It's a bright day today, so there's going to be a lot of glare out there on the slopes.
We don't want you hitting any of those moguls.
Bob, since you're a beginner skier and might take a few spills, it's a good idea to have
a good warm pair of dry ski gloves.
Easy there, Rick.
Well, let's head over onto the chairlift and test your skills.
All right, we're up here on the bunny hill.
So Bob, why don't you do a few snowplow turns?
Gnarly run, Rick.
Nice carving.
You've got some mad skills.
That was sick.
You want to see gnarly?
Well, see that bump over there?
I'm going to catch some major air.
Butt plant.
Ha ha ha.
He lost his skis.
Yard sale.
Well, thanks for joining us here today.
I think that about does it.
Bob, Ian, time for some après-ski?
No way, man.
We're off to grab some freshies.
Pretty embarrassing for Rick there, wasn't it?
Yeah, he was a little bit cocky and then he ended up falling.
Well, I think there's a lesson in that for all of us, but what the real lesson is today
is language.
So why don't we start with language takeaway?
All right, on language takeaway today, let's take a look at the first word.
We have some bindings.
Bindings.
Bindings are sort of like a lock that attaches your boot to your ski.
So those are the bindings.
I guess it comes from the verb to bind.
Yeah, to tie something so that it stays.
Binding.
So for example, my bindings are broken.
And another piece of skiing equipment and very important is goggles.
Goggles.
Okay, we have goggles now.
Not to be confused with Google.
It's spelled almost the same way, huh?
But goggles are kind of like, imagine a big pair of glasses that you wear when you ski.
So it makes people kind of look like flies.
They have these huge glasses.
And you'll also see safety goggles, which you might wear if you are a mechanic fixing
a car or someone working with wood or chemicals or what have you.
Okay, so goggles basically protect your eyes from snow, from the sun, from anything.
So moving on to our next ski word.
They said you should wear the goggles so that you don't accidentally go over the moguls.
Okay, moguls.
It sounds kind of strange.
What are these things?
Basically these are the bumps that are in a ski hill.
Bumps.
Okay, so they're kind of like mini little hills.
And they're very difficult to ski over, right?
You got to be pretty good to handle those moguls.
Now, since these guys are beginner skiers, they're starting out on the bunny hill.
A bunny hill.
The bunny hill.
Very popular among skiers.
The bunny hill is the easiest hill.
So it's where the beginners start to learn.
Yeah, all the kids.
All the kids are on the bunny hill.
And our final words.
Actually, we're going to look at two words here because they mean almost exactly the
same thing.
We heard the ski instructor say gnarly.
Gnarly run.
Yeah, gnarly.
So an interesting word.
It's spelled G-N-A-R-L-E-Y.
Okay, but you don't say gnarly.
You say gnarly.
And a related word, sick.
Now, sick means to be sick, right?
Not here.
Let's listen to some examples to help us understand.
Those were some sick dance moves.
You are amazing.
Jack and I went to the beach yesterday and surfed some really gnarly waves.
Man, the concha last night was sick.
I can't believe we got front row seats.
So, basically, gnarly and sick, they mean that it's amazing, it was cool.
So, these two words are very, very informal.
And actually, skier slang.
Both of these words, I think, originated with skiers, snowboarders, skateboarders.
Gnarly dudes.
So, okay.
So, that's all the words we have for language takeaway, but we have some great phrases that
we want to take a look at before we listen to the dialogue again.
So, it's time now for Fluency Builder.
So, Rick said that it is time to...
So, Rick invited everyone to start skiing by saying, let's hit the slopes.
So, to hit the slopes.
To hit the slopes.
Now, we want to hit the slopes.
Let's go skiing.
Let's go to the mountain.
Now, we can change the noun slope for something else, right?
You can change it for a lot of other different nouns.
And why don't we hear some examples of how you can do that?
I really have to hit the books and study for my exam tomorrow.
I'm really tired.
I think I'm going to hit the bed now.
Honey, can we hit the supermarket on our way home?
I need to buy some milk.
So, great examples and now we understand how we can use the hit the something.
Well, Rick warned Bob that he might take a few spills.
So, to take a spill.
To take a spill.
Take a spill.
Fall.
To fall.
It means like a light fall or...
Yeah, a pretty dramatic fall.
So, you fell.
So, for example, instead of saying, that little girl was riding her bike and she fell, I can
say, that little girl was riding her bike and she took a bad spill.
You have to use the verb take though.
You cannot just spill.
You have to take a spill.
Well, you might take a spill when you catch some major air.
To catch some major air.
So, am I catching something?
How am I catching air?
That's impossible.
Well, imagine if you're jumping and your skis are catching the air.
So, I'm in the air for a very long time maybe?
When you catch some air, basically, it's like you're flying for a couple of seconds.
So, you're flying for a couple of seconds.
You're very high up in the air.
To catch some air.
And you'll hear this phrase when you're, you know, not only when you're talking about skiing,
but also maybe if you're, you know, you're driving your car really fast and it sort of
jumps up in the air for a minute, well, not a minute, a second, that would be catching
air as well.
So, to catch air.
So, they finished skiing.
They were kind of tired and he said, well, let's call it a day.
To call it a day.
Let's call it a day.
Let's go home.
It's over.
Let's finish.
Let's finish the day.
Let's call it a day and go home.
And not before we go to our next word, to grab some freshies.
Grab us some freshies.
Grab some freshies.
Freshies.
What are these freshies?
Remember we talked about fresh powder?
It's that.
So, it's an informal way of saying fresh powder.
Fresh powdery light snow.
So, the snow that nobody has skied on before.
Really good phrases and some amazing vocabulary.
Let's listen to this dialogue one last time and then we'll come back and talk a little
bit more about this really fun sport.
Welcome ski lovers of all ages.
We're joined here by Ian Russe, four-time Giant Slalom champion.
So, let's hit the slopes.
Now, snap them into your bindings.
All right, we're up here on the bunny hill, so Bob, why don't you do a few snowplow turns.
Ha ha ha, he lost his skis.
We heard the guys talk about après-ski, and actually this is one of my favorite parts
of skiing.
It sounds French.
I guess the Frenchness sort of gives it an air of specialness, right?
But après-ski is basically the party that you have after you're finished skiing.
So usually you would have parties after skiing.
Right, so you finish your ski day, you've called it a day, you've glided down those
slopes and you head on over to the lodge, the little cabin, grab a beer or two or maybe
some hot alcoholic drink and kick back and relax with your friends.
Wow, so it's popular for families to go to a ski resort and stay there for a couple of
So this is when you would do this with your friends or family.
If it's with your friends, it's going to last until late into the night.
All right, so it sounds fun.
And next time maybe if you go skiing with your friends and you guys are speaking English
now, you can use all these great phrases and maybe surprise your friends if you tell them,
let's go grab some freshies or something like that.
Yeah, you'll sound pretty, pretty dialed, pretty cool.
All right, so that's all the time we have for today.
Be sure to check out our website englishpod.com.
Marco and I are always around to answer your questions and well, thanks for downloading.
Today we're bringing you a lesson about the office, so something related to business,
And in this lesson, we're learning language you can use to tell someone they did a good
Okay, so a job well done.
You want to praise somebody.
And we're going to listen in as a manager praises his employee on a presentation.
Okay, so before we listen to the dialogue, let's take a look very quickly at vocabulary
And the first one is a whiz.
Whiz.
To be a whiz.
Okay, so it's an adjective.
Somebody is a whiz.
And the whiz comes from the word wizard.
Okay, so kind of like a, like a witch, but a guy witch.
Yeah, man witch.
But so a whiz is someone who is really good at something.
Okay, so I can say David is a computer whiz.
Or Anthony is a math whiz.
Okay, so he's really good at computers or he's really good at math or he knows a lot
about math.
And our second word.
Well, we're going to hear about slides.
Slides.
PowerPoint slides.
Okay, so everyone knows PowerPoint, right?
A computer program.
A computer program that you use to make presentations.
And a slide is one page in that presentation.
Okay, so if you have 10 pages in your PowerPoint presentation, you basically have 10 slides.
So now let's listen to the dialogue for the first time and we're going to see what's happening
in this business meeting.
And so that concludes my outline for our marketing strategy next year.
Thank you very much for your time.
Hey, that was quite the presentation.
Honestly, I was completely blown away by your strategy outline.
I've got to say, Alex, you really wowed me today.
Come on, it was nothing.
I'm just doing my job.
No, I think you deserve some recognition here.
I mean, if I look back on your previous presentations, this is a huge improvement.
Well, Christian did give me a hand with the slides.
She's a real whiz on PowerPoint.
And I saw that you took on board my feedback about pricing strategies.
I really appreciate you taking the time to think through my suggestions.
Yeah, well, that was some good advice.
You made some really good points.
Well, I just wanted to say, well done.
Really, you did a great job.
All right, well, it sounds like the employee is a little bit shy or embarrassed by receiving
all of these compliments.
Yeah, I guess he's kind of being humble about it.
So why don't we move on to the language now?
There are so many really useful phrases in this dialogue that I think we're just going
to focus on those today.
So let's get started with Fluency Builder.
Okay, so today on Fluency Builder, let's start with our first phrase.
The boss was so impressed with the presentation that he said, I was completely blown away.
To be completely blown away.
Okay, so to be completely blown away.
Or to be blown away.
All right, so what does that mean, to be blown away?
To be surprised and amazed, but in a very positive way.
Okay, so I can say, I'm surprised, I'm amazed, but I'm still not very clear on this.
Why don't we listen to a couple of examples of how we could use this phrase?
Carl blew me away with his knowledge of political science.
I was blown away when I heard that Jenny and Rick had gotten married.
They've known each other for less than a month.
My parents were blown away when they found out I had a tattoo.
Okay, so I think that's a little bit clearer now.
And this is a wonderful way to give your praise to someone when they do something really
amazing.
Okay, so completely blown away.
You blew me away.
Now, what about our second word?
Well, it's quite similar.
The boss said that you really wowed me.
You wowed me.
To wow someone.
Okay, so it's spelled W-O-W, wow.
So when you wow someone, you make that person go, wow.
Okay, so you impress somebody.
I can use it as a verb.
I want to wow you.
Well, I want you to wow me.
Okay, so wow.
Now let's take a look at our third phrase.
The guy, he's a little bit shy.
He's trying to be a little bit humble about, you know, receiving so many compliments.
So he says, oh, it was nothing.
It was nothing.
So that's a way of saying it wasn't hard or it's not a big deal.
It's not that important.
So if somebody's saying, wow, thank you so much for lending me your car, don't worry
It's a polite way actually to respond to a nice compliment.
So before we move on to our next phrase, let's listen to a couple of examples with it was
nothing.
Thanks for lending me your car this week.
I really appreciate it.
It's okay, really.
I can't believe you organized the surprise birthday party.
Thank you so much.
So I think that's pretty clear.
Now our final phrase here for fluency builder, the employee said that Kirsten gave him a
hand.
So to give someone a hand.
Give me a hand.
Basically to help someone.
Help me or assist me.
So to help someone, give me a hand or let me give you a hand.
So great phrases in fluency builder today.
I think it's time for us to listen to the dialogue for the second time.
We're going to slow it down a little bit so we can catch all these phrases and then we'll
come back.
And so that concludes my outline for our marketing strategy for next year.
Ah, come on.
Well, Kirsten did give me a hand with the slides.
Okay, so like we said before, there's a lot of really helpful phrases in here.
And we're going to look at a few more of these in Putting It Together.
The boss was quite impressed with him and he said, that was quite the presentation.
That was quite the presentation.
All right, quite the presentation.
So this phrase, quite the presentation, it means it was good, right?
It was special.
It was very good.
Yep, now we can take the noun presentation out and replace it with any other noun.
All right, so I can say, Bob is quite the basketball player.
Why don't we listen now for a few more examples?
I heard you are quite the dancer.
Can you teach me some moves?
Carl is quite the ladies' man.
He is very good when it comes to talking to girls.
Nancy is quite gifted at math.
She can solve any math problem you give her.
So you're saying in a very good way that something is very good.
Or special.
Very special.
All right, so the boss was very impressed with the employee and he said, and I saw that
you took on board my feedback.
To take on board my feedback.
Okay, so take on board something.
So here, my feedback is my suggestions, right?
And when you take on board my feedback, you accept my feedback and you use it.
Okay, so I can say, for example, I want you to take on board my ideas.
Or Jenny took on board a few of my suggestions.
I was really happy.
So to take on board, to accept and use.
All right, so take on board feedback, take on board suggestion, take on board ideas.
And we have one more phrase, I'm putting it together today.
To think something through.
To think it through.
Okay, so think it through.
So here, the boss said that he took the time to think through my suggestions.
So think through, what does that mean?
To think carefully about all of the details of something.
Okay, so to take into consideration all the aspects.
Right, so why don't we give an example?
If you're thinking through a plan, right?
You don't just think about the end, the outcome.
You want to think about all of the small details, the steps in that plan.
Okay, so maybe I want to buy a new car, but it's a lot of money.
So I really have to think it through.
So you have to think carefully about everything that is involved in buying the new car.
All the money you're going to have to, you know, not spend on parties.
Exactly, you have to think it through.
You have to analyze it very carefully.
So let's give a few examples of how we can use this phrase.
Hey, Marco, have you thought through my suggestions?
I can say, you guys are very young.
I think you should think it through before you get married.
Good advice.
Okay, so to think it through.
Okay, so three great phrases and why don't we hear them one more time in our dialogue.
Okay, great dialogue and some interesting phrases for giving praise, right?
That's, I think, very important in the workplace.
Yeah, and you know what, I read recently that something like six out of every ten employees
don't get regular praise from their boss.
It's very important.
And in some cultures, well, it's not very common to praise or to give positive feedback
to their employees.
Yeah, but I think for Western employees, actually, it's really important and it helps them work
harder the more times they hear, job well done.
Yeah, very good.
So now you have the tools that maybe you can use with your employees or...
With your friends.
Okay, so if you have any questions, comments, or doubts, please come to our website, EnglishPod.com.
Yep, Marco and I are always around to help you out.
So until next time, thanks for listening and goodbye.
Happy Marketing University of Florida.
Hello English learners, welcome back to another podcast with us here at EnglishPod.
And today we're going to be looking at a very popular topic, something that everyone has
to do at least once in their life.
That's right, we're talking about mobile phones and getting a mobile phone plan.
Right, so you have a mobile phone, you need to get a plan or you need to do something
in order to make it work, right?
Yes, and in this lesson we're going to learn some language to help you do that.
Alright, so let's start with the language on Vocabulary Preview.
In the dialogue, we're going to compare two types of mobile phone plans, the prepaid plan
and the monthly rate plan.
Okay, so we have two types of plans, prepaid.
Prepaid plan.
Okay, a prepaid plan.
Well, a prepaid plan, basically, just like the name suggests, you pay before you use
the minutes.
So maybe you have to buy a card and then you can use maybe 20 minutes or 30 minutes or
100 minutes.
And then when you run out of money or you use all your minutes, you can buy another
card and like that.
Yeah, but the monthly rate plan is different.
So the monthly rate plan, you have to pay each month.
Right, at the end of each month.
At the end of each month.
And what do you pay?
You pay for everything you used.
You get a bill at the end of the month.
Okay, so very interesting.
These are the ways that mobile phone plans usually work.
And well, now it's time for us to listen to this dialogue for the first time.
We are going to be listening as a shopper is looking to buy maybe a mobile phone or
get a mobile phone plan.
Yeah I just moved here and I'd like to activate my cell phone and I'm not sure if I should
go with a prepaid plan or a monthly rate plan.
Well, can I have a look at your phone?
Unfortunately this phone can't be used in the US.
It's not compatible with our 3G network.
What really?
I don't really want to have to buy a new phone.
Well you're in luck.
You see, if you sign up for our 3 year plan, we'll throw in a handset for free.
What's the catch?
There's no catch.
You just choose a plan, sign a 3 year contract and that's it.
Actually, we're running a special promotion right now and we're giving away a Blackberry
Curve with our special mega value $40 plan.
So what does this plan include?
Well you get 900 anytime minutes and you can also enjoy free mobile to mobile calling to
other Telmobile clients.
A thousand text messages per month and unlimited evening and weekend minutes.
Oh, and we also offer a rollover option.
All this for $40 per month?
Plus the activation fee and the emergency services fee, the monthly service fee and
any charges for extra minutes and...
Well it sounds like a lot more than $40, doesn't it?
This is very common.
They always say that it's a very low price and they always have these hidden charges,
So why don't we look at some of the language they were using in the dialogue now in Language
All right, on Language Takeaway today we're going to be looking at 4 very basic words
that are used in this whole mobile phone context and the first one is activate.
To activate my cell phone.
All right, so you have to activate your cell phone.
You have to make the cell phone work.
So basically you make it work.
Now can you only apply this to mobile phones?
No, there's many things that you must activate to make work.
For example, you must activate your computer software.
Okay, or maybe you have to activate your credit card.
Or activate your bank account.
So usually you do this for the first time before you start using it.
But imagine your mobile phone is sleeping, right?
And you need to activate it to make it start working.
But you only do it once.
Right, only once.
We talk about mobile phone or we say the cell phone, but this also has a specific name,
A handset.
Handset.
So the device, the phone, you can call it a handset.
All right, a very easy word, but it's kind of a little bit more technical.
Now, one of the things they were talking about with this monthly rate plan was a rollover
option.
Rollover.
A rollover option.
So what is this rollover option about?
Well, okay, I'll give you an example.
Let's say you have 500 minutes each month.
And you only use four of them in this month.
100 of those minutes can roll over, can move over to the next month, so now you have 600
minutes.
So basically, the minutes that you don't use, you can still use the following month.
Okay, so that's a rollover plan.
Now, we might recognize the verb to roll over, right?
Right, so it's very similar to physically move from one place to another.
All right, rollover.
And now, in the end, we talked about many types of fees.
That's right, activation fee.
Okay, or we also had emergency services fee.
So what is a fee?
A fee is the amount of money you must pay for a service.
Okay, so this is important.
It's for a service.
Yeah, you can't pay a fee for something you can touch.
Okay, so if I go to the store, I don't say, what is the fee of this bottle of water?
What's the fee for filling this bottle of water?
Okay, so for a service.
Yes, for an action.
So I think it's time for us to listen to this dialogue again.
We're going to slow it down because it was a little bit fast, and then we'll come back
and look at some great phrases.
Can I help you?
Yeah, I've just moved here, and I'd like to activate my cell phone.
And I'm not sure if I should go with a prepaid plan or a monthly rate plan.
Unfortunately, this phone can't be used in the US.
Well, you're in luck.
You see, if you sign up for our three-year plan, we'll throw in a handset for free.
You just choose a plan, sign a three-year contract, and that's it.
Actually, we're running a special promotion right now, and we're giving away a BlackBerry
Curve with our special mega-value $40 plan.
Well, you get 900 anytime minutes, and you can also enjoy free mobile-to-mobile calling
to other Telmobile clients, 1,000 text messages per month, and unlimited evening and weekend
Plus the activation fee, the emergency services fee, the monthly service fee, oh, and any
charges for extra minutes and...
Well, you know, there are some interesting phrases in this dialogue, and a lot of them
can be used when you're talking about a negotiation or a contract or a deal.
So let's take a look at these phrases in Fluency Builder.
Okay, the first phrase that we have on Fluency Builder today was the problem that she had
with her mobile phone was that it wasn't compatible with a 3G network.
Okay, to be compatible with.
To be compatible with.
Now this word compatible means that it works well with something else.
Now there's a lot of things that you can use this phrase compatible with, together with.
You know, people, things.
So why don't we hear a few examples now.
Our application is compatible with most smartphones.
My roommate and I are just not compatible.
All she ever does is study, and I like to stay up late and party.
I'm sorry, your computer is not compatible with our software.
It's too old.
So compatible with, very clear, and it's very useful.
Now, what about the next phrase?
Well, you know, the girl was hearing about all of these great things that are included
in the contract, and she asked, what's the catch?
So she was asking for the catch.
What is the catch?
Well, good thing you asked.
A catch is something negative, something that's hidden, that makes the deal seem not so great.
Okay, so if somebody offers me a new car.
They say, you can have this new for free.
Okay, well, that seems too good to be true.
So what is the catch?
The catch is that I can only drive it at night.
Okay, that's kind of annoying.
So that's the catch.
There's like a condition.
Now, she asked about the catch, and well, she said, well, there's no catch, you know,
you just signed the contract.
And then the salesman told the lady that she is in luck.
You're in luck.
To be in luck.
Well, okay, I think we can really understand the meaning, right?
When you're in luck, something lucky has happened.
You're having good fortune.
But how do we use it?
So maybe you're looking for a very special bottle of wine for dinner tonight.
Yep, it's very rare.
Okay, and you go into this little store, and all of a sudden, you're in luck.
You found it there.
This phrase is actually most commonly used in the second person.
You are in luck.
You are in luck tonight.
Yeah, and usually when someone asks you for something, then you say, you're in luck.
I have it.
Or you're in luck.
I have the very last one.
All right, and now, to end a fluency builder, we have one more phrase.
And so it was when the salesman said, we'll throw in a handset for free.
All right, to throw something in.
So if she signs the contract, he will throw in a free handset.
It means to include something for free.
Okay, so you can say, if you buy this house, I'll throw in the dog for free.
So to throw in, to include for free.
All right, so great phrases, and I think we understand them now.
So let's listen to this dialogue for the very last time.
Yeah, I just moved here, and I'd like to activate my cell phone, and I'm not sure if I should
And we also offer a rollover option.
Plus the activation fee and the emergency services fee, the monthly service fee, and
Mobile phones.
This is very common in the United States, right?
These monthly plans.
Most places where I have lived, it's much more common to pay as you go, right?
To have a prepaid plan.
But in the States, almost everyone goes with the monthly plan.
Maybe it's because in order to have a monthly plan, you need to have a credit card.
You might be onto something.
So if you don't have a credit card, or maybe you're 18, you can't get a monthly plan.
So you gotta do this prepaid plan.
Another interesting thing that I've noticed when living in different countries and seeing
mobile phone habits, Americans and North Americans respond very differently to a ringing mobile
phone than other people do.
How so?
For example, if I was in a meeting in America and my phone rang and I answered it, people
might think that I was very rude to answer the phone in a meeting.
But here, when we're living in China, it's totally normal.
Everyone does it.
That's the polite thing to do, answer your phone.
And I think that's absolutely true, and maybe it's because in North America, you have this
voicemail option for your mobile phone.
Yeah, and everyone has it.
Everyone has it.
So if it's something very important, then the person will leave you a voicemail message
and then you will know what it's about or you can call them back.
But here, I guess, or in other countries, maybe they don't have that option, so they
need to answer every call.
Yeah, it's interesting.
An interesting sort of cultural difference in the way we use our phones.
But what about listeners?
In your country, do you answer the phone immediately or do you let it ring?
Right, or maybe do you see who's calling and maybe just not answer it.
Yeah, screen your calls.
To screen a call.
So come to our website, EnglishPod.com, let us know what your mobile phone habits are
and also if you have any questions or doubts.
Yeah, Marco and I are always there to answer your questions, so until next time, thanks
for listening and goodbye.
Hello English learners, welcome back to another great podcast here at EnglishPod.
And today we're going to be talking about one of our favorite topics as always.
We're going to be at a restaurant.
And, you know, one of the most difficult or embarrassing things to deal with at a restaurant
is what to say when you don't like the food or when it's bad quality food.
So maybe we have to complain about the food or maybe even the service, right?
And in this lesson, we're going to be learning some really wonderful words and phrases that
you can use when you need to complain about the food or the service in a restaurant.
So before we listen to what happens in this restaurant with this food, let's take a look
very quickly at vocabulary preview.
We're only going to do one word today.
And this you'll hear in the dialogue.
An establishment.
Establishment.
This kind of establishment.
So when I say an establishment, that's a noun.
What is an establishment?
It's basically a fancy word for a business or a restaurant in this case.
In this case, it's a restaurant.
But in general, you can say it's a business.
So you have a very fine establishment.
So an establishment, a type of business, a place of business, really.
So now it's time for us to listen to our dialogue.
We're going to find out what's going on here.
Apparently, there is a very angry customer and we're going to find out why.
Excuse me, waiter.
Yes, sir.
I've been sitting here for the past 20 minutes and no one has offered me a glass of water,
brought any bread to the table, and our appetizers haven't been served yet.
You know, in this kind of establishment, I'd expect much better service.
I'll check on your order right away.
Relax, honey.
The place is busy tonight and I've heard the food is amazing.
Anyway.
Here you are, sir.
The foie gras for the lady and a mushroom soup for you.
Waiter!
I ordered a cream of mushroom soup with asparagus.
The soup is obviously too runny and it's over seasoned.
It's completely inedible.
I do apologize for that.
Can I bring you another soup or would you like to order something else?
Take this foie gras back as well.
It's rubbery and completely overcooked.
And look at the portion size.
How can you charge $25 for a sliver of duck liver?
Honey, come on.
The foie gras was fine.
Why are you making such a big deal?
Are you trying to get our meal comped again?
We're paying for this and I'm shelling out my hard earned bucks.
I expect value for money.
I hope it is all right now.
The chef has prepared it especially for you.
Yes, fine.
Honey, are you all right?
Well I guess that's one lesson.
Hey, if you're in a restaurant, don't be too rude to the waiter.
You never know what's going to happen.
The waiter and the cook, right?
Yeah, you don't want to offend that kitchen staff.
So we'll talk about that a little bit later on but now I think we had some really interesting
vocabulary of how to describe food that is not well prepared and we can take a look at
All right, so the guy in this dialogue, he ordered a mushroom soup and he complained
that the mushroom soup was too runny.
Okay, the soup is too runny.
Runny.
So he wanted a cream of mushroom so it should be a little bit thicker.
But in this case, it was runny.
So when something is runny, it's too liquid.
Too liquid.
And I think we can relate it to a runny nose, right?
Okay, so when liquid is coming out of your nose, a runny nose, in this case, the soup
is runny.
And another thing that he was complaining about, the food was over seasoned.
Over seasoned.
The food is over seasoned.
Okay, so if the food is over seasoned.
It's too salty.
So it's another way of saying it's too salty.
Yeah, it's kind of a fancy cooking term.
Now can I say if there's too much pepper in the food, can I say it's over seasoned?
Well, technically no.
When a cook says something is over seasoned, he's talking salt only.
Only salt.
So the cream of mushroom is very runny, it's over seasoned, and he said it's completely
inedible.
Inedible.
It's inedible.
Now, this word edible.
You can eat it.
So we have this prefix inedible.
You cannot eat it.
This is not possible.
And it doesn't mean that physically you can't eat it.
It just means it's pretty disgusting.
This food is inedible.
And then he started to complain about the other dish and he said that it's rubbery.
Rubbery.
The foie gras was rubbery.
So I think we noticed the word rubber.
So obviously if a food is rubbery, it's too chewy.
It's like chewing on the bottom of your shoe, right?
Okay, so it's too hard to chew or to swallow.
And apparently the food was rubbery because it's completely overcooked.
Overcooked.
We have overcooked.
So when something is overcooked, I mean it's easy to understand that it's cooked too much.
But it doesn't mean that it's burnt, right?
So maybe you've ordered your steak to be rare, but it comes to you well done.
So it's not burnt, but it's cooked too much.
So also I guess we can say like chicken.
Sometimes if you overcook chicken, it comes out too dry.
So to overcook something.
And finally he was complaining about the size of the dish and he said, this is a sliver
of duck liver.
A sliver.
Now this word sliver is like a slice, right?
A very small, tiny little slice.
So we can say, okay, I just want a sliver of bacon for breakfast.
Let's look at a few more examples of how we can use sliver.
No, John's on a diet.
He'll just have a sliver of cake and no ice cream.
I'm really full, but it looks so delicious.
Can you just cut me a sliver?
You call this sliver of beef on my plate a meal?
There's almost nothing here.
And those are all the words we had for language takeaway.
Now you have, so we've given you different adjectives of describing food that is not
well prepared.
So now let's move on to some other phrases that the customer used to complain in Fluency
So before we get to the customer complaining language, I want to look at a phrase that
the waiter used to apologize.
He said, I do apologize.
I do apologize.
Now, why is this phrase so interesting?
Well, I mean, it's pretty easy to understand the meaning, but I want to look at why he
added this verb do.
Well, he added the verb do to this phrase to make it seem a little bit stronger, to
give a little more power to his apology.
So if you have an affirmative phrase, like I apologize, it's good.
If you want to give it a little bit more emphasis, you can say, I do apologize.
Why don't we give an example?
So I might say this, Marco, I didn't know we had a party tonight.
And I might say, what?
I did tell you about it last week.
So you're just giving a little bit more power to the statement that you told me.
So this do, did, does, becomes an auxiliary to make it more powerful, to give it more
emphasis.
And a neat little phrase, something you can use if you want to make your apologies sound
maybe a little bit stronger.
Now moving on to the next phrase, he was complaining about the food and it was terrible.
And he said, I'm shelling out my hard earned bucks.
Okay, let's break this one down into two sections.
We'll start with shelling out.
So to shell out.
So when you shell out, you pay for something.
So this gives you the sensation that you are, that you don't really want to pay.
You're a bit unhappy about it.
So you want to shell out your money.
Why don't we listen to some examples to show us how we can use this phrase to shell out.
It's my girlfriend's birthday this month.
So I'm going to have to shell out for a present.
I really want those shoes, but I can't really afford to shell out $400.
Ella shelled out the 800 bucks for the tickets.
I thought I would have to pay.
So now that we understand shell out, let's move on to the second part of that sentence.
My hard earned bucks.
Hard earned bucks.
So bucks are dollars, right?
Dollars, only dollars, right?
Not pounds, not euros.
But his hard earned bucks is money he had to work really hard for.
So I can also say my hard earned money, right?
Or my hard earned cash.
So you worked hard to get it.
So three great phrases that can be used when you're complaining in a restaurant.
Why don't we hear them one last time in context by listening to the dialogue.
Okay, I do apologize for that.
So complaining at a restaurant and actually sending food back is not uncommon in the US.
If the food's bad, of course you're going to send it back.
But maybe in other cultures, I think people would be a little bit more reluctant to do
something like this.
But hey, you know what's an interesting thing about the way Americans eat in restaurants
is sometimes at the end of the meal, if they haven't finished everything, they might ask
for a doggy bag.
A doggy bag, yeah.
So what is that, a doggy bag?
Well, usually if you order a big meal or half your steak is left over on your plate, you
would ask for a doggy bag and they would bring you a little box or a bag and you would take
it to supposedly give it to your dog.
So it's sort of like you tell the waiter, oh, the steak was so good, I couldn't finish
it, can I take some home to my dog?
So you would just ask, waiter, can I have a doggy bag?
But it's sort of like code for I'm going to eat this tomorrow for lunch.
So people wouldn't really give it to their dog.
You know, that steak wrapped up in a fancy sort of foil salon is going to be a pretty
delicious the next day.
It's actually very common in the US, but in other countries, people will leave entire
plates of food on the table.
It would be totally impolite to ask the waiter to pack up the food for you.
So a little bit of cultural differences, but we want to know what you think and how things
are done maybe in your country with complaining or sending food back or even this whole doggy
bag situation.
Why don't you visit our website, EnglishPod.com and tell us about it.
We'll be there to answer any questions or comments, but we got to go now.
So until then.
From Jeff and Charlie's view of what it's like to not have a dog.
Welcome back to another great podcast here at EnglishPod.
And today we're going to be bringing you bad news.
Actually, what we're really going to be bringing you is language to talk about bad news.
So maybe you have to give bad news to your boss, to your parents, I don't know, somebody,
and we're going to be teaching you how to do this in English.
Well, obviously, it's always difficult to tell somebody bad news, but in your second
language, it's even harder.
So we're going to try and help you today with some great phrases and vocabulary items.
We're not going to preview anything today.
Let's go directly to our dialogue where we will be in a company and one of the employees
is going to be giving bad news to his boss.
Now that we've been over the gory details of our disastrous first quarter, Ed, give
us some good news.
How are things looking for us in terms of sales this month?
Well, would you like the bad news first or the really bad news?
Ed, don't tell me you only have bad news.
Well, sir, our sales have dropped, no plunged, 50% in the past month alone.
We are currently overstocked and overstaffed and our profits are falling fast.
The market is in recession and we have no way of moving our inventory or getting rid
of our staff.
If we consider redundancies, it costs us a fortune because of the new regulations governing
compensation packages.
It's a real mess.
You're crying out loud.
How fast are we losing money?
How can I put this?
Let's just say that at this pace, we will be filing for Chapter 11 in less than three
Jeez, how could this have happened?
So what's the bad news?
Oh, that's the really bad news.
Our supplier suffered QC problems and, well, half of our production is faulty.
We're going to have to recall all items sold in the last quarter and the worst part, we're
going to have to shoulder this cost.
Are you joking?
Get the supplier on the line now.
They have to assume the cost of this mess.
We tried that, sir.
The factory has gone under and the owner apparently has fled the country.
Oh, we're doomed.
There's some really good news, though.
I got offered a new job.
All right, it sounds like a pretty tough time for this company, doesn't it?
But good news for the employee.
He won't be jobless.
Well, I guess he knows when to get out.
But why don't we take a look at some of the language now in Language Takeaway.
So in Language Takeaway today, we have five vocabulary items and, well, let's start with
All right, so the boss, he's talking about the gory details of our disastrous first quarter.
So let's look at the phrase gory details.
All right, so gory details.
Gory details.
This sounds kind of strange, gory details.
It seems very scary.
Well, the word gory comes from gore, like blood and guts, right?
That's why it sounds a little bit scary to me.
So gory details mean all the little details of a negative or shocking or bad situation.
Okay, so the gory details of the meeting, so all the nasty negative stuff.
Or the gory detail, or you could say the newspaper reported all the gory details of the murder.
So gory details.
So the employee was talking about how bad the company was doing and he mentioned this
word redundancies.
They are considering redundancies.
Okay, so redundancies, again, it's based on the word to be redundant.
All right, and that means?
To not be needed anymore.
Okay, so redundancies are basically firing people.
It's well, laying people off, people that you don't need anymore.
They are redundancies.
All right, so this is actually a British term, redundancies, to become redundant, because
in American English, you would just say layoffs.
All right, so moving on.
They were talking about redundancies and maybe they should or shouldn't lay some people off,
but one of the problems were the regulations governing compensation packages.
Okay, so regulations governing compensation packages.
Regulations governing something.
So we have a noun governing noun.
All right, so I think it would help us to understand this a little better if we listen
to some examples of this pattern, noun governing noun.
I don't agree with the regulations governing income taxes.
People shouldn't have to give away their hard-earned money.
We need to protect the environment.
Therefore, there will be new policies governing corporate levels of pollution starting next
month.
The lack of regulations governing city transportation has led to many traffic accidents.
And well, before we move on, this compensation packages, I guess it's all the things that
the company gives you when they lay you off, right?
Right, maybe a certain portion of your retirement benefits or...
Like a month's pay, etc.
Okay, compensation packages.
All right, so moving on to our next item on Language Takeaway, we have to shoulder the
cost.
To shoulder the cost.
All right, so if I shoulder something...
You have to carry it.
I carry it.
So basically, it's the same as the shoulder, your body.
So you carry this cost or you carry this responsibility.
So you might also hear shoulder the burden.
To shoulder the burden.
So it just means to carry the responsibility.
Okay, to share it.
All right, interesting.
And we have one more word on Language Takeaway.
And the factory has gone under.
To go under.
All right, to go under.
When something goes under, a company goes under, it goes bankrupt.
It goes bankrupt.
So it's not working anymore.
All right, so to go under.
Great vocabulary items here on Language Takeaway today.
It's time for us to move on to the next segment of our show where we're going to look at some
So let's start now with Fluency Builder.
All right, so we've got some phrases that you can use when somebody is going to tell
you some bad news, but also some phrases you can use to deliver bad news.
All right, so let's start with our first phrase.
So the boss is getting ready to prepare for this bad news and he says, lay it on me.
He's like, okay, lay it on me.
Lay it on me.
So if I say this, lay it on me, I'm just saying, tell me.
So give me the bad news.
All right, so lay it on me.
Very informal though.
It is kind of informal.
But our next phrase, the boss is hearing about all this bad news and he says, for crying
out loud.
For crying out loud.
All right, so this is a very common phrase of frustration.
So why don't we listen to some examples to kind of understand how we use this phrase.
For crying out loud, when I tell you to have the report done by Wednesday, that means I
expect it to be on my desk by the end of the day.
We've got to figure out a new marketing strategy for crying out loud.
For crying out loud, you just got your driving license and you already got in an accident.
So it kind of reminds me of, oh my God.
So you're frustrated, you're just saying this phrase as, oh my God, or something like this.
Yeah, it's like, oh, this is so annoying.
All right, moving on to our third phrase.
So the boss asked him a direct question and he said, well, how can I put this?
So we use this phrase, we want to say something maybe a little bit more indirectly.
Right, so you're looking for words of how you can make it softer or more polite.
Maybe the truth or what you're about to say is a little bit strong, so you want to soften
it up a bit.
Okay, so you say, how can I put this?
But then you have to complement it with, let's just say that.
Let's just say that.
So how do we use this phrase?
So for example, somebody asks me, well, what do you mean?
Why can't you come on vacation with us?
And I would say, how can I put this?
Let's just say that in nine months you will hear the pitter patter of little feet.
Okay, so your girlfriend's pregnant.
So you're not saying, my girlfriend is pregnant.
You're giving like a metaphor.
A metaphor of what's going on, but you don't want to say it directly.
So for example, I might say, let's just say that Michael isn't doing a great job.
So maybe there are very strong reasons or he's doing very, very poorly.
But I'm just sort of not saying it exactly directly that he's doing bad.
So it's a phrase that you can actually use a lot and to be a little bit more polite or
a little bit more indirect when you're giving somebody some bad news.
So we have two nice sort of complimenting phrases for delivering bad news and why don't
we hear them one more time in the dialogue.
Don't tell me you only have bad news.
Well, sir, our sales have dropped.
No plunged 50% in the past month alone.
You're coming out loud.
Our suppliers suffered QC problems and well, half of our production is faulty.
We're doomed.
There's some really good news though.
So this topic of filing for Chapter 11 is actually very recent, very common now because
recently one of the biggest companies filed for Chapter 11 in the US.
But I often get confused by the phrase to file for Chapter 11 versus to file for Chapter
13.
All right, so in the United States, the bankruptcy law has different chapters or different sections,
And Chapter 11 is basically for companies that run out of money, that go bankrupt, so
they have to declare themselves in bankruptcy and so they file for Chapter 11.
But what about Chapter 13?
Chapter 13 is for people.
So people who have large debts, maybe with the car company or the telephone company and
they can't pay, they file for Chapter 13.
They say, hey, I don't have money, I can't pay.
So I guess here it's kind of a metaphor again.
This phrase to file for Chapter 11 or Chapter 13 meaning bankruptcy.
And people will say personally that they're filing for Chapter 11.
Right, so this is an interesting situation because if you file for bankruptcy in some
countries, you can go to jail.
I read recently about this happening in Dubai actually.
So there is prison for debts.
In the US, you don't go to prison for debts.
But what about in your country's listeners?
What happens when you go into debt in your country?
Or what happens when a company goes into bankruptcy?
Let us know.
Leave your questions and comments.
And of course, Erica and I are always there to help you out.
Thanks for downloading you guys and until next time, goodbye.
Hello English learners, welcome back to another show with us here at EnglishPod.
And today we're bringing you another romantic lesson but a little bit sad as well.
Today, unfortunately, our couple is going to be breaking up.
Right, so it's a little bit sad today but it's going to be good because we're going
to be teaching you some great words and phrases that you can use when you are faced in this
situation.
Right, and so we're going to learn some phrases for breaking up and also some phrases for
staying together.
Alright, so let's listen to the dialogue for the first time and see what happens with our
young couple.
Honey, do you have a second?
You seem a bit worried.
What's on your mind?
We need to talk.
I've been thinking and well, I think we need to start seeing other people.
I mean, we've had our ups and downs and we have the occasional disagreement but we're
happy together, aren't we?
That's just it.
I'm not happy anymore, Tim.
It's not you, it's me.
I know that I can be hard to deal with and you're a great guy.
You're the type of guy that any woman would kill for.
So what are you saying?
You're breaking up with me because I'm perfect?
Tim, you are too good for me.
You deserve someone who can make you smile and make you happy the way that you made me
happy.
I could say that I'll be all you need but that'd be a lie.
I know I'd only hurt you.
I know I'd only make you cry.
Baby, come on.
Don't do this to me.
Whatever it is, we can work it out.
Just give me another chance.
I know that we can get through this but we gotta stick together.
Don't leave me.
I can't, Tim.
I hope someday you can find some way to understand I'm only doing this for you.
I don't really want to go but deep in my heart, I know this is the kindest thing to do.
Laura.
Here are your keys.
I'll send my sister to pick up the rest of my things next week.
I'm sorry, Tim.
I wish you all the best and I hope that one day we can meet again.
I'll always love you.
Okay so a pretty sad ending to this relationship, isn't it?
Yeah, but I don't think the girl was very moved or very sad by breaking up with him.
I wonder why.
Maybe she's got some other boyfriend somewhere else.
Well, as you mentioned, we listened to some great phrases and it's time for us to take
a look at them now in Fluency Builder.
Okay, here we're going to focus on phrases that people use when they break up.
So maybe you've heard these in movies and we're going to look at the meaning now.
Alright, our first phrase, as we heard, she started by saying, we need to talk.
Alright, so it's a very direct sentence, we need to talk.
So when you tell someone, we need to talk, you're telling them that you want to talk
about a serious thing, right?
Right, so if somebody tells you, we need to talk, you know that you're going to talk about
a very serious matter.
Yeah, a problem or a breakup or something.
And after that, she told him that they should start seeing other people.
Start seeing other people.
Okay, I think we need to start seeing other people.
To see other people.
Alright, so this is very easy to understand.
It means to?
To date other people.
Okay, so it basically means that you will break up.
It's an indirect way of saying that, right?
Yeah, you're not saying, hey, let's stop dating.
You're saying, oh, well, maybe we should date other people and kind of giving the idea that
you will still date each other, but everyone knows you won't.
Alright, so let's start seeing other people.
Now for our third phrase.
She says, it's not you, it's me.
Now this is a very cliche phrase and you hear it all the time in movies and well, some people
still use it, right?
Everyone says this.
I've heard this.
I've said this.
It means basically, I'm the problem.
You're not the problem.
I'm the problem.
Right, so I am breaking up with you because it's my fault, not your fault.
Yeah, so it's kind of a nice way to break up with someone, but actually everyone knows
that it's kind of a lie.
Not true, right?
It is you.
You are the problem.
Alright, so it's not you, it's me.
And then, well, in order to emphasize this, that it's not his fault, she said that I know
I'm hard to deal with.
So hard to deal with.
Okay, if somebody is hard to deal with.
They're maybe difficult to talk to, difficult to please, maybe difficult to manage.
Okay, so it's very difficult to talk to that person.
Alright, hard to deal with.
It's only for people.
You can't use it for a situation or something else?
No, you can use it for people or situations or even sometimes things.
So for example, I can say, I find this problem at work so hard to deal with.
Okay, hard to deal with.
So we've seen these four phrases that we can use to break up with someone.
And well, let's listen to our dialogue again.
We're going to slow it down a little bit and then we'll come back and look at some other
phrases to stay together with someone.
I mean, we've had our ups and downs and we have the occasional disagreement, but we're
I could say that I'll be all you need, but that'd be a lie.
I know that we can get through this, but we got to stick together.
I don't really want to go, but deep in my heart, I know this is the kindest thing to
do.
I wish you all the best, and I hope that one day we can meet again.
Okay, so as you said, we're now going to focus on the phrases you use to stay in a relationship
with someone.
So let's look at those now in the Fluency Builder Part Two.
So the girl was trying to break up with him, and he kept on trying to convince her to stay.
And one of the things he said was, we've had our ups and downs.
We've had our ups and downs.
Ups and downs.
Well, ups and downs are good times and bad times.
So the good times would be the ups and the bad times.
Obviously the downs.
So it's an informal way of saying good times, bad times.
So they've had their ups and downs, and he said we can work it out.
We can work it out.
So whatever the problem is, we can work it out.
So why don't we hear some examples of how this phrase is used, and that will help us
understand it a bit better.
Peter and Claudia were having some problems, but they finally worked out their personal
differences.
We need to work out a new marketing plan for this upcoming quarter.
After an hour, I finally worked out the answer to this math problem.
Okay, so to work something out means to find a solution for it.
Yeah, to solve the problem.
To solve the problem.
And again, he kept on insisting and saying, well, we can get through this.
We can get through this.
Okay, get through this.
So to get through something.
What does it mean to get through something?
Well, basically to survive a difficult situation.
Or live through a difficult time.
Okay, so for them, the difficult time was this in their relationship.
Yeah, or maybe you're having a problem at work, and you might say, hey guys, don't worry.
Just give us one more week.
And well, as he was saying that they can get through this, he mentioned that they have
to stick together.
To stick together.
We gotta stick together.
Stick together.
So again, to stick.
So when something sticks together, it stays together like glue.
Right, so they have to be a team and not separate in order to solve their problems.
Exactly, it gives you that idea that they're gonna work together and stay together.
So let's stick together.
Alright so again, we have four great phrases to convince somebody or to say that you want
to stay together in a relationship, right?
I think it'll help us to understand these if we hear them one more time in the dialogue.
Honey do you have a second?
I mean we've had our ups and downs and we have the occasional disagreement but we're
Whatever it is we can work it out.
I don't really want to go but deep in my heart I know this is the kindest thing to do.
I'm not the one you needed.
Alright, so breaking up can be a difficult situation, especially if you're the one breaking
up, right?
Well, I guess it's never happy if you're the person who's being broken up with or you're
the person doing the breaking up.
I really noticed that a lot of the phrases the girl used to break up were very like cliche,
like you said.
They were very...
Common.
Too common.
And kind of a joke almost.
So the phrase, it's not you, it's me, it's one of them.
And she also said you deserve better.
You deserve someone better.
That's a very common one saying like, I'm not good enough for you.
But again, it kind of just, it loses its meaning, doesn't it?
And also another phrase that's very cliche, but it wasn't in our dialogue was maybe the
timing is just not right.
People say that all the time.
So they say, no, the timing is not right.
It's not the appropriate time to be together.
That's just an excuse for not wanting to date that special person.
So it can be a difficult situation and people do it every day through letters, sometimes
through the phone.
And sometimes it's just breaking up in person.
So listeners, why don't you tell us if you have any stories of breaking up with someone
or maybe somebody broke up with you.
Try and use the language in this lesson and visit us on our website at EnglishPod.com
and leave us a comment.
And today we have a lesson for all our university students out there.
We're talking about registering for university.
Okay, so it's a difficult process sometimes even in your own language, so we're going
to try and make it a little bit easier by giving you some of the common words you would
need to register at a university.
Alright, well I think it's time we get started by listening to the dialogue.
And we're going to listen to a young female student as she tries to choose her classes.
Excuse me, is this where I register?
I'd like to sign up for my courses for next semester.
Yes, of course.
I need your student ID please.
Okay, Susan.
It says here that you are a business major and that you're in your second year.
Is this information correct?
I do want to take some additional credits this year to get a minor in psychology.
Sure, that's not a problem.
Do you have a list of courses that you want to take this semester?
Yeah, here's my list.
I'm not sure if the class schedule will allow me to take all of them though.
Yeah, that's perfect.
What about the subjects for your minor?
Oh yeah, I almost forgot.
I need to take fundamental linguistics, consumer psychology, and neuroanatomy.
Wow, you're going to be busy this semester.
Okay, here you go.
You're registered now.
You have to make your first tuition payment before classes start.
All right, great, a very good student taking a lot of classes this semester.
I know, and it sounds like some of them are pretty hard as well.
Yeah, they are.
Well, she used some of those very common phrases that we would need when we are registering
at university.
So let's take a look at them now in Language Takeaway.
So, the first thing, I think we need to deal with this word to register.
Register.
So register for university.
Okay, so we've mentioned this word many times, so I think it would be a good idea to listen
to some examples and then we'll come back and explain it.
I registered to attend the conference on international trade this month.
It is your obligation as a good citizen to register to vote.
It is necessary to register on our website before joining the conference.
So when you register for something, you put your name down on a list, right?
So in this case, when you register for university, you officially put your name on the list of
students in that course.
Okay, so you can register for university.
What else can you register for?
Register for a class.
You can even register to vote.
Okay, so register.
Now she was registering for her classes and we saw these words that we know already, but
it's a good idea to take a look at them.
We heard that she is a business major.
So a major.
A major.
A business major.
And what is your major?
The major is the major area that you study, the most important area that you study.
The area where you are specialized.
Yeah, the area that you focus on.
Okay, now we heard another one that's called a minor.
So this is another area that you study, but it is less important than your major.
Okay, so major and your minor.
So let's give an example.
Imagine you must take 100 classes to graduate from university.
Maybe you have to take 50 for your major and maybe 30 for your minor.
And now on your degree, on your title, does it say what is your major and minor?
Well, I think it depends on the university, but in my case, yes.
So major and minor.
Now related to this and what you were saying about your classes, it takes us to our next
word, which is credits.
Credits.
Now, this is easily confused with classes sometimes.
Well, a credit is kind of a point.
So like maybe, so in university, you need a certain number of credits or points to graduate.
Okay, so suppose you need 100 credits to graduate.
So that's not 100 courses because each course might be worth four or six or eight credits
depending on how important it is.
So maybe the classes that are part of your major will have more credits.
So, and now we have our last word in this dialogue and it was tuition.
She had to pay her tuition.
So tuition is the money that you must pay for education.
Okay, only for education.
So, university tuition, private school tuition or even language course tuition.
Okay, so a tuition is the money you must pay for school only.
So we've seen a lot of great words used for registering at university.
So I think it's time to listen to the dialogue for the second time a little bit slower and
then we'll come back and take a look at some phrases.
I need your student ID, please.
Okay, Susan, it says here that you are a business major and that you're in your second year.
Here's my list.
I need to take fundamental linguistics, consumer psychology and neuroanatomy.
All right, so it's time for putting it together.
And we're going to look at some phrases here that we can use to talk about education and
university and we can use them in different ways.
All right, and our first phrase is actually very similar to register.
To sign up for something.
Okay, I want to sign up for.
I'd like to sign up for my courses.
I think it would be a good idea if we listen to some examples of how we can use this phrase.
I signed up for a one-year gym membership.
If you want to assist our meeting, you need to sign up first.
I hate signing up for things online because they just send you spam emails.
Okay, so I can see that to sign up for something is to agree to take part in it.
Okay, so it's a little bit more informal than register.
Less formal.
So, moving on to our second phrase.
This is very important because it's often used improperly, right?
Yeah, people often make mistakes with this phrase.
All right, so let's look at this phrase.
Second year.
So, she is in her second year.
Now, it seems very simple.
So, why are we explaining this?
Well, it often gets confused with grade.
So, when we talk about university, we talk about first year, second year, third year,
fourth year.
We cannot say grade one, grade two, grade three, grade four.
Or year one, year two.
No, it's always first year, second year, third year, fourth year.
Or last year.
Yeah, last year.
My last year of college.
So, now you know how you can explain to someone what year of college or university you're
in.
And we have one more phrase to you.
And it was when she was getting her class schedule.
So, class schedule.
Class schedule.
Now, a schedule is the list of things you do at what time.
Right, so it's the timetable of your day or your week.
So, your class schedule will say all the classes that you have and what time they're at.
So, what other types of schedules can we have?
You also have maybe a gym schedule.
Or even a work schedule.
So, we have different types of schedules and you can use it depending on what you are doing.
Those are all the phrases we have for putting it together today.
And now, let's listen to the dialogue for the last time and then we'll come back.
Is this where I register?
That's not a problem.
I'm not sure if the class schedule will allow me to take all of them, though.
You're going to be busy this semester.
So we were talking about second year, first year, third year, etc.
Now, there are also other names that we give to each year, both for high school and university.
And I think this is only for America.
Like in the United States, we don't do this in Canada, and I always get so confused.
So Marco, what is the name you give to first year students?
Okay, so first year students are called freshmen.
Okay, because they're fresh.
Because they're fresh.
Yeah, they just came from middle school, they just came from high school.
And what about the second year students?
They're called sophomores.
Okay, because they're soft.
Well, it's not soft.
It's a sophomore.
Like S-O-P-H.
Sophomore.
And then third year students are called juniors.
Okay, because they're almost the, like junior manager.
Because then last year students are called seniors.
So the oldest guys in the school.
So you can say, yeah, I'm a sophomore at Arizona State University.
Okay, so we only use this in America though, right?
And not only for university, but also for high school.
All right, guys, that's all the time we have for today.
I hope you enjoyed this lesson.
And if you have any questions or comments or you want to share with us your experiences
in high school or university, please come to the website at EnglishPod.com.
So Marco and I are there to answer your questions.
And until next time, thanks for listening and goodbye.
Hello English learners, welcome back to another sports lesson with us here at EnglishPod.
And today we're going to be talking about a very interesting and very difficult game
to play and it's golf.
So we've got some golf vocabulary for you in this lesson.
And I think we better actually look at a few vocabulary words in vocabulary preview before
we start with the dialogue.
On vocabulary preview today we have three words and the first one is aficionado.
Aficionado.
An aficionado.
A golf aficionado.
Alright so this basically is a very fancy word of, it's a very fancy way of saying a
fan.
Yes, someone who likes something a lot.
Okay so you are an aficionado.
I like golf.
Yeah, you can also be a wine aficionado.
Okay, so it's kind of like a hobby.
Yeah, you know a lot about it and you like it.
And now our second word is not anywhere in the dialogue.
No, but we're going to use it when we explain some of these words so you need to know it.
Okay, the word is club.
Club.
A golf club.
Okay so a golf club is the tool you use to hit the golf ball.
Right, so it's a long tube basically that looks like a J kind of.
Yeah, so and you hit the ball with it.
So that's a golf club.
And now our third word is golf course.
Golf course.
A golf course.
A course.
So this is the area where you play golf.
Yeah, it's like the golf field.
Yeah, so it's a very big green area where you play golf.
So those are the three words we have for vocabulary preview.
So now we could listen to our dialogue for the first time as we listen to our sports
announcers, Rick Fields and Bob Copeland and see what happens on this occasion.
Good morning, Golf Aficionados.
My name is Rick Fields and you guessed it, I'm here with my main man, Bob Copeland.
As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, we are here in beautiful Pebble Beach where the top
golfers in the world are vying to win the grand prize of $1 million.
Whoa, that's a lot of cash.
Let's go to the course and see how Tiger Woods is doing.
All right, we're here at the eighth hole.
It's par four and has some very difficult hazards which many golfers find difficult
to avoid.
Although, I did see Jack Niclaus hit a hole at one on this very same hole.
Tiger Woods is about to tee off and let's see if he has the same luck as Jack.
Tiger is asking his caddy for his driver and he seems to be very nervous.
Oh, no, not a good swing at all.
It's definitely not his day today.
On the seventh hole, he got a bogey and before that, he barely made par.
He will definitely not get a birdie on this shot.
It seems that his ball has flown somewhere deep into the trees.
He's having a hard time finding it and even his caddy has climbed a tree to try and spot
Oh, no, a bear.
Run, Tiger, run.
Somebody call animal control.
So, a pretty exciting ending to that dialogue there.
A bear on the golf course.
Yeah, I wonder if Tiger is okay.
I sure hope so because it would be a huge loss to the world of golf.
So, we did learn a lot about golf because they use some very specific and technical
words for golf.
So, let's look at these now in Language Takeaway.
So, the announcers were talking about the game and they're talking about the course
and they're here on the eighth hole and they said that last time, Jack Nicklaus hit a hole
in one.
Hole in one.
A hole in one.
Okay, a hole in one.
So, this is when you hit the ball once and the ball goes in the hole.
So, it's something very difficult to do.
I've certainly never made one.
So, sometimes it's also called an ace.
So, it can be a hole in one or called an ace.
Now, for our second word, now once we get to the hole, to the ninth hole or the tenth
hole, we have to tee off.
To tee off.
Tee off.
So, when you tee off, you begin playing.
So, it's the very first instance where you put the little ball on the tee.
And you hit the ball for the first time.
So, to tee off.
Now, another golf vocabulary, they were talking about a caddy.
Right, a caddy.
A caddy.
Now, a caddy is a person.
Yes, it's the person who carries your golf clubs.
So, he carries your bag, your golf clubs and basically helps you while you're playing golf.
Yeah, he tells you which way you should hit the ball and maybe, you know, gives you a
nice cold drink and looks after you.
So, that's a caddy.
And now, the caddy, since he has to carry all the golf clubs, Tiger Woods asked him
for his driver.
A driver.
Driver.
Now, a driver is a type of golf club.
It's not a person.
It's a type of golf club and it's a very big and heavy golf club that is used to tee off.
So, it's used to hit the ball a very long way.
That is called the driver.
Okay, so, and the next thing they were talking about were some different types of scores
that you could get on a hole.
And the first one they mentioned was par.
Okay, so, you can make par.
So, the par of the course can be four.
So, basically, the par is the maximum number of swings or strokes you can make before putting
the ball into the hole.
So, it's like the, right, so, when a hole is par four, you should only hit the ball
four times.
Four times or less.
Now, if you don't make par, there are some options.
You can make a bogey.
Alright, a bogey.
A bogey.
Now, sometimes the golf course is very difficult.
So, instead of putting the ball in the hole, let's say in four turns, you do it in five.
Okay, so, it's one over par.
One over par.
So, that's bad.
Yeah, that's bad because you get a point.
So, it's kind of strange because in golf, the more points you have, the worse you are.
The worse you are.
So, that is a bogey.
Now, they also talked about a birdie.
Birdie is the opposite if you hit one under par.
So, that's good.
Yeah, that's good because you have minus one.
One less than par.
Alright, so, this is actually a lot of weird, crazy, strange language.
Birdie, bogey, caddy, driver.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue one more time to help us understand?
Good morning, golf aficionados.
Alright, we're here at the eighth hole.
It's a par four and has some very difficult hazards which many golfers find difficult
Although, I did see Jack Nicklaus hit a hole in one on this very same hole.
Oh no, not a good swing at all.
It is definitely not his day today.
He'll definitely not get a birdie on this shot.
It seems that his ball has flown somewhere deep in the trees.
He is having a hard time finding it and even his caddy has climbed a tree to try and spot
Oh no, a bear.
Run Tiger, run.
Body call animal control.
Alright great, so I think it's clear now what type of rules they have in golf and how it
works so why don't we take a look now at some of the phrases that we heard in the dialogue
Okay, well one of the phrases I want to talk about is something that Bob Copeland said.
He said, as you can see ladies and gentlemen, we're here at beautiful Pebble Beach.
Okay, as you can see.
As you can see.
So this usually goes in the beginning of a sentence.
Yeah, it's a way to say I know you can see this.
I'm telling you something you know.
Okay, so maybe I'm showing you my house and I can say, as you can see, our living room
is very spacious.
Yes, so this is actually a really helpful phrase.
It can help you sound really native-like so why don't we hear some examples of how it's
used.
As you can see, we recently remodeled our entire kitchen.
As you can see here, the damage to the building is very serious.
As you can see, the hair stylist made a mistake when cutting my hair.
Alright great, so as you can see.
Now for our second phrase, well Tiger Woods wasn't doing very well and the announcer
said it's not his day.
It's not his day.
It's not his day today.
Alright, so when it's not your day, you're having a bad time or a bad day.
Right, maybe you're having difficulties or you're having bad luck that day.
Yeah, so for example, today I had a headache and I ripped my pants and I spilled coffee
on myself so it really wasn't my day.
Okay, it's not your day today.
Great phrase and also very common and makes you sound very native.
Now the last phrase, similar to it's not your day, we also heard that Tiger was having a
hard time.
Okay, to have a hard time.
To have a hard time.
Now if you have a hard time with something.
You have difficulty with it.
Okay, now it's not only related to golf, right?
Of course, you can talk about anything like this.
So I'm having a hard time understanding what this word means.
Okay, or when I was in school, I had a hard time with math.
Alright, me too.
So to have a hard time means that you have difficulties with something.
Let's listen to this dialogue for the last time and then we'll come back and talk a little
bit more about golf.
My name is Rick Fields and you guessed it.
I'm here with my main man, Bob Copeland.
On the seventh hole, he got a bogey and before that he barely made par.
All right, so Marco, I know that in the Western business world, golf is actually super important
for your career, isn't it?
Well, many times when you see in movies or the stereotype is that business is done on
a golf course.
And yeah, it is true.
But sometimes people will invite you out to a golf course and you'll be playing a game
and talking business and relaxing at the same time.
So maybe you negotiate a deal out on the golf course.
And of course, if you lose, it's a good thing because then the deal will pull through.
Well, actually, I know that it is so important for people who are wanting to do well in business
and many people who don't speak English as their first language take golf English lessons.
So not only golf lessons, like how to play golf, but also in English.
Like how to talk about golf, how to talk to other people and make deals while you're on
the golf course.
Because like in many other sports, golf has also its slang and its terms and stuff.
So yeah, it's very interesting and it's one of those cultural things.
So if you have any questions or comments about today's lesson, why don't you visit our website
at EnglishPod.com.
We're always there to answer any questions or doubts you might have.
And until next time, we'll see you there.
Well, I guess I neglected to make a decision.
Hello English learners, welcome back to another podcast here with us at EnglishPod.
And today we are going to be looking at a very useful lesson because, well, sometimes
you need to call a plumber.
Okay, so first of all, why don't we start with vocabulary preview because I think we
need to know this word, plumber.
All right, so on vocabulary preview today we're going to look at two words and the first
one is the one that we mentioned, plumber.
A plumber.
So it's a person, a plumber.
And a plumber is the person who fixes everything in your house that is related to water, right?
Okay, so he fixes the toilet, the sink, the shower.
Yep, that's the plumber.
And now the second word is obviously related to plumber and it's water pipes.
Water pipes.
The pipes.
So the plumber fixes or looks at the water pipes as well.
And those are a tube that carries water in and out of your house.
Okay, so water pipes.
You also have different types of pipes like gas pipes.
Okay, so what are we learning in this lesson?
So in this lesson we're going to be learning how to describe when you have problems with
plumbing, when you have problems in your sink or in your toilet and how you can describe
And so I think we should take a look at our dialogue for the first time and see what types
of problems this woman is having with her plumbing.
Did you call for a plumber?
Yes, yes I did.
I'm so glad you came.
This old house is falling apart.
Come into the bathroom.
See here.
There's water leaking everywhere.
Let me have a look.
It seems that your toilet is clogged and that's why it won't flush.
Let me just get my plunger.
No, that's not working either.
I suspect that there's some sort of foreign object in the pipe that's causing a blockage.
That's what's making your toilet overflow.
Oh, that must be because of my four-year-old daughter.
She is always flushing things down the toilet.
You know how kids are.
Yeah, I have a little one myself.
Anyway, these water pipes are really rusty, so they also should be changed.
That could be causing water to not drain completely.
That might lead to more problems in the future.
I would suggest fixing this faucet that isn't shutting off properly.
I could have it all finished by today if it's urgent.
Is it expensive?
I would say about $800.
That's more than I'm making a...
All right, well, it sounds like she's having some big problems with her plumbing, but actually,
I'm really interested that the plumber makes so much money.
That is a very interesting thing, and we're going to talk a little bit about that later
on, but I think we should look at those kind of difficult words that we found in the dialogue
now in Language Takeaway.
So we have five words here, all to do with a plumber and water pipes.
Now the first word, they talked about that there was water leaking everywhere.
So you have water leaking.
Water leaking.
So to leak.
When something leaks, it lets liquid come out when it shouldn't.
Okay, when it shouldn't.
So maybe you have a bottle of water and it's closed, but maybe there's a hole in the bottle.
So it leaks.
All right, and so there was water everywhere, it was leaking, and maybe the reason was because
the toilet is clogged.
Okay, clogged.
The toilet's clogged.
Clogged.
Now, what does it mean if the toilet is clogged?
If the toilet is clogged, there is something that stops the water from going down.
Okay, so there's something blocking it.
Okay, a clogged toilet.
Now the plumber said that it might be clogged and he tried to fix it with a plunger.
A plunger.
Okay, so it's kind of hard to describe what a plunger is, so why don't we listen to the
sound a plunger makes in a toilet.
All right, so the plunger is the tool that you use to unclog a toilet.
Okay, that's what you use, a plunger.
So the plunger didn't work and he wasn't able to fix the toilet and he said that there's
something in the pipes causing a blockage.
All right, so our next word, a blockage.
Blockage.
Well, a blockage is something that stops water from flowing.
Okay, so something is blocking it.
So you have blockage.
And we have one more word on Language Takeaway and that word is faucet.
A faucet.
All right, so the faucet is the part of the sink that lets water come out.
Okay, so you have a faucet in your sink.
Yeah, so you put your hands under the faucet so you can wash them.
Okay, that's the faucet.
So now that we've learned about these different tools and these different ways of describing
problems with your plumbing, let's listen to this dialogue another time, a little bit
slower now, and then we'll come back and take a look at some great phrases.
Come on into the bathroom.
See here, there's water leaking everywhere.
I suspect that there's some sort of foreign object in the pipes that's causing a blockage.
Anyway, these water pipes are really rusty, so they should also be changed.
I would also suggest fixing this faucet that isn't shutting off properly.
That's more than I make in a day and I'm a heart surgeon.
Well, we've got three phrases that you can use when you need to describe something not
working with the pipes.
So let's look at them now in Fluency Builder.
So the lady called the plumber and he arrived and well, she described her house as old and
that it's falling apart.
It's falling apart.
So when something is falling apart, it's old and it's breaking slowly.
So we can say the house is falling apart or maybe this old car is falling apart.
You can also use it for people.
Oh, I'm getting so old and falling apart.
So you're getting sick.
Now for our second word.
Well, the woman said that maybe her daughter was flushing things down the toilet.
Okay, so to flush something down the toilet.
To flush something down the toilet.
So before we explain this, let's listen to a toilet being flushed.
Okay, so that's the sound of flushing and when you flush something down the toilet,
what happens?
Basically, you throw something into the toilet and then you flush it.
So it goes away.
So flushing something down the toilet.
Well, she also talked about the faucet and it wasn't shutting off properly.
Shutting off.
To shut off.
Shut off.
When you shut something off, you turn it off.
So we can say to shut something off or to shut off something.
So, hey, Marco, can you shut off the computer?
Okay, or I can say, can you shut the faucet off?
So we took a look at these three phrases that will help you describe again, these situations
or problems that may happen in your bathroom or with liquids.
And well, let's listen to the dialogue for the last time and we'll come back and talk
a little bit more.
See, here.
No that's not working either.
Anyway, these water pipes are really rusty so they also should be changed.
That's more than I make in a day and I'm...
We heard in this dialogue that this plumber is making about $800.
And actually this in many countries is not far from the truth.
For example, in Canada, there is a shortage.
There's not enough of these people like plumbers who can do this type of work so they can charge
a lot of money.
So this type of work is called a...
He's not really a professional, right?
He is a trades person because he works in a trade.
So like a plumber, an electrician, a person that paints your house, those are all trades.
And well, it is true because now many people don't want to learn or do these types of trade
because well, it's not considered to be such a great job, right?
But the funny thing is now if you're a plumber and you get your first job as a young person,
you can make so much more money than a person with a history degree, for example.
Because there is a shortage of these types of...
You can call them professionals.
So well, what about in your countries?
Let us know how these types of trades work.
Are there many of them?
Are there not many of them?
Because well, of course, in different countries, it's a little bit different, right?
In some countries, there are too many tradesmen.
So visit us on our website, EnglishPod.com and tell us all about that.
And remember, if you have any questions about the lesson, you can ask them there as well.
And until next time.
Thanks for downloading and goodbye.
Hello English learners, welcome back to another great lesson here at EnglishPod.
And today we are going to have a lesson that is going to be very useful when you arrive
late.
Yes, well, we all have arrived late to something and we need a good way of saying sorry and
saying why we were late.
So today we're not only going to be looking at vocabulary used to explain why you are
late but also some typical excuses of why people are late.
Right, so some normal reasons for saying why you're late.
Well, why don't we get started with the dialogue.
Now we're going to hear five people in the dialogue.
So at the beginning we'll hear the boss and the assistant and then we'll hear three people
who are arriving late.
Where is everyone?
Scotch has called and said that he's running late.
His last meeting ran over, but he's on his way now.
Guys, this is not acceptable.
If I say the meeting starts at 10, the meeting starts at 10.
Not 10.01.
And definitely not 10.20.
All right, let's get started.
So the first thing I want to talk about is our-
I'm really sorry everyone.
I know I'm late, but really it's not my fault.
I was getting a coffee at Starbucks and the line was way, way too long.
I was waiting for 20 minutes to get my coffee.
All right, so well, good excuses in general, except the last one.
I don't think that's such a good excuse of why you're late, right?
Yeah, I don't really think if I was the boss, I would be very happy with this employee.
Yeah, I don't think coffee is that important.
But some of the excuses were good and some of the language they used to describe the
excuses was really great.
All right, on Language Takeaway today we have four words that we're going to be looking
at and well, let's get started with the first one.
So Joe called the office assistant and explained that she will be late because she got tied
up with a client.
To get tied up.
So I got tied up with a client.
All right, this is a really common reason for being late, but why don't we listen to
some examples to help us understand what it means.
Sorry, I'm late, honey.
I got tied up at the office.
I was tied up on the phone all afternoon and didn't get any work done.
I got tied up in traffic on the way here.
All right, so if you get tied up, it means that you get busy with something that you
can't avoid.
Right, you're busy with something that's so important, it's like you are tied by a rope
to that thing.
Okay, I got tied up.
I'm sorry, I got tied up.
All right, now the first person that arrived to the office will explain that there was
a huge traffic jam on the highway.
A traffic jam.
A huge traffic jam.
Now we understand traffic, right?
Cars, a lot of cars.
So a jam, it means that it was like blocked.
It was stopped.
There were a lot of cars on the highway and they weren't moving.
So a huge traffic jam is a very, very big stopping of cars.
Now our next word explains why sometimes there is a traffic jam.
Well we found out that there was a huge pileup.
A pileup.
A huge pileup.
Okay, a huge pileup.
Now if a pileup is another way of saying an accident, right?
Yeah, an accident with many cars and they all get piled on top of each other.
All right, so many cars got into an accident.
So this could be a reason of why there was a traffic jam.
And also a reason for why you were late.
Now the other person, Scott, also called and he said that he's running late.
He's running late.
I'm running late.
Now if I'm running late, am I actually running somewhere?
What am I doing?
You are going to be late and you know you're going to be late.
Okay, I know I'm going to be late.
So I'll call you and I'll say, hey, I'm running a little bit late.
Yeah, actually this is the most common thing I say when I'm going to be late and I think
it's really important to know how to use this phrase.
So let's hear some more examples.
Example one, Jane is running late.
She'll be here in 10 minutes.
Example two, traffic is really bad.
So I'm running late.
Example three, I'm running a bit late.
So please start without me.
So running late, a very common way of explaining that you're going to be late and well, it
makes you sound very native.
Yeah, it's a great phrase.
Now our last phrase that we heard, the reason why Scott was running late was because his
last meeting ran over.
Okay, to run over.
My meeting ran over.
Now ran over, my meeting ran over, it means it went too far?
Well, when something runs over, it goes longer.
Okay, longer than expected.
Yeah, so a meeting can run over or an appointment can run over.
So I can say, my meeting ran over 15 minutes, I'm going to be a little bit late.
That's right, a great excuse.
Five great words and well, I think it's time for us to listen to this dialogue and understand
these words as they were used in the dialogue and then we'll come back and take a look
at more phrases.
We were supposed to start 15 minutes ago.
Joe called and said she'd be here in a sec.
She said she got tied up with a client.
Sorry, I'm late everyone.
There was a huge traffic jam on the highway this morning.
Morning everyone.
Were you stuck in traffic as well, Jess?
There was a huge pileup on the highway and traffic was backed up for miles.
Scott just called and said that he's running late.
If I say the meeting starts at 10, the meeting starts at 10, not 10.01 and definitely not
10.20.
I was getting a coffee at Starbucks and the line was way too long.
Okay, we got some more great phrases for describing being late.
Let's look at them now in Fluency Builder.
When Jo called, she said she'd be there in a sec.
I'll be here in a sec.
So when someone will be here in a sec, it means they'll be here very soon, right?
Okay, I'll be here in a sec.
I'll be there in a sec.
But what about this word sec?
It's a short way of saying second.
So sec.
A sec.
Now, it's an exaggeration obviously because you won't be there in one second, but you
just explaining that you'll be there very, very soon.
What about the difference between I'll be here in a sec and I'll be here in a minute?
Well, if you say I'll be there in a sec, it means like I'll be there in one minute, right?
But if you say, oh, I'll be there in a minute, it could be a minute or more like three or
four or five minutes.
Yeah, I think that's true.
Now, again, going back to this traffic issue, we saw that somebody was stuck in traffic.
To be stuck in traffic.
I got stuck in traffic.
Now when you're stuck in traffic, you can't drive because there are too many cars stopped
on the highway.
So you are actually in the traffic jam.
Yeah, you're stopped there for like 20 minutes.
You can't move.
Okay, I'm stuck in traffic.
I'm going to be late.
Really great excuse.
And the reason they were stuck in traffic was because traffic was backed up for miles.
Okay, traffic is backed up for miles.
To be backed up for miles.
Now, if I say the traffic is backed up for miles, it means that it's very long or how
does that work?
Well, okay, imagine there is an accident and that has caused the traffic jam and the cars
are lined up for many miles behind you.
Okay, so it's backed up.
From that point, there are many miles of cars waiting to pass.
Yep, so it's backed up for miles.
So great phrases.
And I think it's appropriate for us to listen to the dialogue for the very last time and
then we'll come back and talk a little bit more about this being on time issue.
Where's everyone?
We're supposed to start 15 minutes ago.
Sorry, I'm late, everyone.
Morning, everyone.
Are you stuck in traffic as well, Jess?
So the first thing I want to talk about is our...
I'm really sorry, everyone.
Well, Marco, I know that ideas about time and ideas about being late are different in
different countries.
Yeah, in different countries, people treat time or being on time in different ways.
Yeah, like I'm from Canada and I look at being on time really different than you do, right?
Yes, because for example, if you call for a meeting at nine o'clock, usually people
will be there at nine o'clock because the meeting will start.
In America.
Right, in America.
Now, for example, in Latin America, we do have this, what we call sometimes the Latino
time or Hispanic time, which is like nine o'clock is like the time that everyone should
be there.
But until people get there, get their coffee and whatever, then it'll be 9.15, maybe up
to 9.30.
And I think it's a little bit even more noticeable when we're talking about social events.
Like if you go to someone's house for dinner in Canada, if they say, come to my house at
six o'clock for dinner, you'll be there at 6.05, right?
Okay, yeah.
Yeah, usually you'll be there only a couple of minutes after the time that was specified
just to, you know, give the house owner a little bit of time.
But if we have a dinner invitation for six, we know that it's not really going to begin
eating at six, so people will get there at 6.30 or seven.
And of course, food isn't ready until like maybe eight or nine.
But in German countries, from what I know, you've got to be there.
If they say be there at six, you're there at 6.00, right?
Not 6.01.
And also, I think it's about when people start work, right?
How on time you have to begin work.
Sometimes it's acceptable to be 10 or 15 minutes so-called late, but in other places, you know.
Yeah, North America, if you're supposed to start work at nine, you have to be at your
desk working at nine.
At nine.
Yeah, see that in other countries, people get there at nine, get their coffee, maybe
take a quick glance at their emails or the newspaper and then, you know, start working
at around 9.30 or 10.
So I guess the important thing is to know what the tradition is in the country where
you are.
So come to our website, EnglishPod.com and let us know how it works in your countries.
I know that many different countries have a different way of treating time, so share
it with us.
Yes, and remember, if you have any questions, please ask them at the website as well.
We're out of time today, but until next time, thanks for listening and goodbye.
Hello English Nerds, welcome back to EnglishPod.
And today we're going to be looking at English slang and informal words used in the 1980s.
So this is the next part of our decades dialogues.
So the 1980s maybe for many of our listeners is a little bit more familiar and there are
a lot of phrases and a lot of words that were born in this decade and we still use them
So we're going to learn those words and phrases in this dialogue.
But before we start, we need to preview a couple of words.
Let's go now to vocabulary preview.
So one of the words that we're going to hear in our dialogue is ride.
Is that your ride?
So a ride.
Normally, we know this word as a verb, right?
To ride a bicycle.
In this context, it's an informal way of referring to your car.
So a ride is a car.
Yeah, so I just bought a new ride.
All right, well, maybe you'll take me for a ride in your new ride.
In your new ride.
And we're also going to be looking at this word loaded.
He's loaded.
So if you are loaded.
You're really rich.
You have a lot of money.
You are loaded with money.
So loaded and ride.
Those are two words for vocabulary preview.
And well, let's listen to our 1980s dialogue and see what happens.
Jim, what's up, man?
Charlie, is that your ride?
It's butt ugly, dude.
Don't be an airhead.
This is a 1969 Chevy Impala.
I just need to fix it up a bit.
In a couple of months, this baby is going to be wicked.
Not even.
Now that's a fresh ride.
Well, too bad the driver's a major dweeb.
Anyone can have a car like that if their daddy's loaded like his.
He's coming this way.
Hey, guys.
What do you think of my automobile?
Isn't it bad to the bone?
Word.
The ladies are going to be lining up to get with you when they see you driving around
in that car.
You really think so?
For sure.
Psyche.
You totally fell for it.
You're a real scumbag, Charlie.
When I do the nasty with the prom queen, we'll see who has the last laugh.
Dude, don't have a cow.
So typical high school students of the decade, right?
Definitely very, very 80s.
Very 80s.
And well, of course, you always have the situation with the cool kids and maybe the kids that
are not so cool and well, they're making fun of him, right?
Yeah, but they use some really cool words.
So let's look at them now in Language Takeaway.
So the first word that we saw in Language Takeaway and was really interesting, this
word butt ugly.
It's butt ugly.
That car is butt ugly.
So when something is butt ugly, it's really ugly, right?
It's very ugly.
It's not just ugly.
And what would butt is like from your bottom.
From your bottom, yeah.
So he said the car was butt ugly and the other guy answered by saying, hey, don't be an airhead.
An airhead.
So an airhead is someone with air in their head.
In their head.
So they're not very smart.
They've got no brain.
They've got no brain, right?
So he said, don't be an airhead.
Don't be such an idiot.
Now for the third word, he described his car as being wicked.
It's wicked.
Wicked.
That's wicked.
It's gonna be wicked.
So this is a very 80s way of saying it's gonna be cool.
It's gonna be awesome.
And now when they saw another car pulling up, a new car, he described it as a fresh
ride.
It's a fresh ride.
Now we understand that ride is a car, right?
So a fresh ride.
It's another way of saying cool.
So kind of similar, wicked and fresh.
Now finally, at the end of our dialogue, they said, you're a real scumbag, Charlie.
So this word scumbag is interesting.
You're a scumbag.
A scumbag.
It's interesting and it's still used today, I would say.
So when someone is a scumbag, they're just really not a nice person.
They're not nice or they're not maybe to a certain point, honest.
They're not kind.
So you're a scumbag.
But it's not a very harsh word, right?
It's not harsh to call somebody a scumbag?
Well, it's not like a swear word, but it's certainly not a nice thing to say to someone.
So let's listen to all these adjectives that we've just looked at right now again in our
dialogue and then we'll come back and look at some more phrases.
Jim.
What's up, man?
In a couple of months, this baby's going to be wicked.
Too bad the driver is a major dweeb.
He's coming his way.
You are a real scumbag, Charlie.
Well, you know what, Marco?
I love the 80s.
I love the language of the 80s.
I love the music of the 80s.
And I'm really loving these phrases from the 80s.
So why don't we look at them now in Fluency Builder?
So on Fluency Builder today, let's take a look at these phrases that you were talking
And the first one is very interesting.
So these two guys, they were making fun of this other person that was in this nice car
and he called him a major dweeb.
A major dweeb.
He's a major dweeb.
What a major dweeb.
Now let's break this into two parts first.
Well, let's see what dweeb means.
Well, a dweeb is a very uncool person.
So kind of similar to a nerd.
A small kind of guy with no power.
He's a dweeb.
Now, this word major.
It just means big, really serious.
So it's a way of emphasizing, right?
And you can say anything.
You can have a major anything like, oh, I've got a major headache.
Or I can say, I have a major problem this week.
So major, a very big problem.
Now they're talking about this really cool car and the guy who was a bit of a dweeb,
he said, isn't it bad to the bone?
Bad to the bone.
It's bad to the bone.
Now, this is also part of a famous song, bad to the bone, but what does it mean?
Well, when something is bad to the bone, it's super cool.
It's like, it's so dangerous that it's cool.
It's very, very cool.
Now, this is not used anymore.
Don't walk out of your house and use this phrase tomorrow.
So, but it's interesting to know because there is a famous song that has this phrase in it.
So bad to the bone.
So the car was so cool.
It was bad to the bone that all of the ladies would be wanting to get with the driver.
So somebody wants to get with you.
He just wants to get with you.
So if you want to get with someone, you want to have sex with them.
So if you want to get with someone, basically, it means that you want to have sex with them.
But there's another phrase that was used in the dialogue that means pretty much the same
thing.
To do the nasty.
They're doing the nasty.
Now, this was a very popular way of saying it in the 80s.
It means to have sex as well.
To do the nasty is a little bit rude, isn't it?
I think it's a little bit more direct.
If you and your friends are talking and you say, hey, I think that girl wants to get with
you, it's a little bit more casual and less obvious.
Do the nasty is a little bit more rude.
A little bit more direct.
And now the last phrase that we're going to look at today was made famous by the cartoons,
The Simpsons.
And it's don't have a cow.
Don't have a cow, man.
Don't have a cow.
So, to not have a cow.
Don't have a cow means?
To get really angry, to freak out, to get upset.
So, now we know that you say don't have a cow, but can I say it and use it in the positive?
Can I say, hey, my boss totally had a cow today in the office?
And it means, again, so it freaked out, got angry, made a big deal of something.
He had a cow.
So, Frank's going to have a cow when he finds out I smashed his car.
Of course Frank is going to have a cow.
How can you smash his car?
But now it's time for us to listen to this dialogue for the last time and then we'll
come back and talk a little bit more about this decade of the 1980s.
Now, that's a fresh ride.
So, Marco, when I was listening to the dialogue this time, I heard a really cool word.
They said, psyche.
And this was a very popular thing during the 80s when you would say to somebody, psyche.
So this is like saying just kidding, right?
Just kidding, right.
So you would say, oh, Eric, I really like your hat.
Oh, thank you.
Psyche, that hat is terrible.
So that's how you would use it.
You would give somebody a compliment or you would lie to somebody and then tell them,
psyche, and then like tell them the truth like, oh, that hat is terrible or I was just
kidding.
So, psyche.
That was a phrase.
It was very, very popular and when I was in school, we would use it as well.
We would psych each other out.
So do we still use this phrase today?
I don't think we use it today.
I don't think it's cool anymore.
Well, if you'd use it, it's kind of like you're joking, right?
And I think it would make people laugh.
Like, you know, it's pretty funny.
You're joking about how you're a little bit old-fashioned.
I'm very sure you would surprise a lot of your native English-speaking friends if you
use this phrase.
A good one to try out.
Now, if you have any questions about this phrase or any other of the language, come
to our website at EnglishPod.com.
We're there to answer all your questions and also let us know any other lessons or topics
that you would like to learn about in the future.
Well, thanks for listening to this lesson, you guys.
Hello English learners, welcome back to another lesson with us at EnglishPod.
And today we don't feel very good.
Actually, in this lesson we're talking about a hangover.
Hangover, wow, that's an interesting word.
Well, when you drink beer or wine or vodka, and you drink too much of it, the next morning
you have a hangover.
Aha, okay, so a lot of our listeners have probably experienced a hangover before.
It's very likely.
But the problem is when you have to go to work the next day.
Yes, and you might need to actually miss work, but you need some good words and phrases to
describe how bad you feel.
Okay, so let's listen to this dialogue for the first time.
We have a guy describing his hangover and why he missed work that day.
Are you okay, man?
You don't look very well.
I went out last night with Trevor and things got a little out of hand.
Nice, so where did you guys go?
We hit up a couple of local bars and met up with some friends.
Everything was cool until Mike came along and it turned out that it was his birthday
yesterday.
Oh no, Mike's birthday is a drink fest for sure.
Tell me about it.
We drank everything in the bar.
Is that why you missed work today?
Yeah, I woke up this morning feeling really nauseous.
I threw up like five times.
I was so dehydrated that I drank a gallon of water and my head has been pounding all
I swear, I am never going to drink again.
Too bad, man.
Tonight is Tracy's going away party and she asked if you were going to go.
I'm there.
All right, so he's never drinking again, but then at the next chance for a party, he's
already ready to go.
I think that's the typical lie of every person that drinks.
They say, I'll never drink again, but a week later or a month later, there they are again.
Or a day later.
All right, so we saw some great vocab here, so let's look at it now in Language Takeaway.
I'm going to look at five words here.
Now, the first one, they talked about how Mike's birthday is a drink fest.
A drink fest.
It's a drink fest.
All right, so we have this word, drink fest.
Now, what is this fest part?
Well, maybe you recognize the word, Oktoberfest.
Okay, or festival.
So fest is like a party.
There's lots of food.
There's lots of drink.
A drink fest is an event where there's a lot of drinks.
Okay, so can I have different types of fests?
Yeah, this is a really informal sort of slang way of saying there's lots of something.
So I could say, oh my God, it's a puppy fest.
So there are a lot of puppies.
Or I can say like a fast food fest.
Okay, so you're eating a lot of fast food.
There's a lot of fast food.
All right, so fest, interesting.
Now, when he was describing his hangover, he said that he felt really nauseous.
Nauseous.
Now, I always have a hard time spelling this word.
So N-A-U-S-E-O-U-S, nauseous.
It kind of seems like you should say nauseous.
Right, but-
But you say nauseous.
Okay, so when you're feeling nauseous, what do you feel like?
So you feel dizzy.
You don't feel very well.
Like your stomach hurts.
Yeah, and your head is kind of spinning.
Okay, and you feel like you might throw up.
Now this word that you just mentioned, throw up, is actually our next word and well, we're
not going to describe it.
Why don't we just listen to a person throwing up?
Oh, Marco, that was horrible.
Well, that's the only way we could actually explain throw up.
It's kind of a hard word to explain, but I'm sure everyone understands now what it means,
Okay, the word is to throw up.
To throw up.
Now, our guy who's hungover, he said, I was so dehydrated.
Dehydrated.
To be dehydrated.
So this is an adjective and it means that I have no water in my body.
Okay, so I am dehydrated.
I need water.
That common feeling after drinking too much beer, huh?
Now our final word.
He said he had a headache and he said, my head's been pounding all day.
Okay, so his head has been pounding all day.
Now this verb, pounding, it sounds like this.
Alright, so a clear example of what your head feels like when you have this very bad headache.
You can also say, I have a pounding headache.
I have a pounding headache.
Or my head is pounding.
Alright so five great words that we just looked at right now.
So why don't we listen to our dialogue a second time.
Let's slow it down just a little bit and then we'll come back and take a look at some phrases.
So where did you guys go?
Mike's birthday is a drink fest for sure.
Ew.
I swear I am never going to drink again.
Alright, well that was a little easier to understand this time.
Now you mentioned that we've got some great phrases so let's go to them now in Fluency
Alright, so as we heard in the dialogue, the party was, I think it was a great party, right?
Well, it sounds like it was fantastic.
Well, apparently it was a great party and he said that he went out with Trevor and things
got a little out of hand.
Things got a little out of hand.
Right, so things got a little out of hand.
Now to get out of hand, what's that mean?
Well, we have some examples so let's listen to a couple of them before we explain it.
Honey, the kids are getting a little out of hand.
Can you do something?
Guys, this argument is getting out of hand.
Let's all calm down.
The party last night got out of hand.
The neighbors called the police.
Okay, so when things get out of hand, you lose control.
Exactly, they get out of control just a little bit maybe.
Yeah, go a little crazy.
Alright so things got a little out of hand.
Now the opposite of this was everything was cool.
Everything was cool.
So everything was cool.
So basically everything was okay, everything was relaxed, everything was going fine.
Exactly, and then Mike came along and then things got a little out of hand.
Oh, that Mike.
He was describing that Mike's birthday party was a drink fest, right?
And then his friend agreed.
He said, tell me about it.
Now what does this mean exactly when he says tell me about it?
Basically it means I completely understand.
I completely agree with you.
So I could say, oh my god Marco, it's so hot outside today.
And I would say, I know, tell me about it.
So I'm saying, yeah, I agree with you, you are right.
So these phrases, okay, so three great phrases that we just looked at.
Let's listen to our dialogue for the last time and then we'll come back and talk a little
So it sounds like these guys sure like to go out and have a few drinks, don't they?
And I think this is a very common thing among young people, usually in the United States.
After a day at the office or something, they'll go or even in Europe, they'll go to the pub,
But the thing is that in America and Canada, we're very careful about alcohol and young
people, right?
The legal drinking age in the most part of the United States is 21 years of age.
And really, many parents or families will never let their children drink alcohol until
they're 21.
And also the laws that control alcohol, like for example, on television, if you notice
a TV commercial with a beer or a wine, you will never see the person actually drinking
It's illegal.
While in other countries, it's okay.
You'll see people drinking it and having fun.
In these commercials, they can only maybe put them close to their lips but not drink
I mean, another weird thing is that sometimes you might want to sit in your back garden
or out on your porch and have a beer after work, right?
But in places, it's totally illegal to do that.
You can't be outside with alcohol.
You can't be seen drinking or you can't be on the sidewalk or on a bus drinking.
While in other places, you can, right?
You can just have a beer on the subway.
So it's a little bit different policies on alcohol control.
What do you guys think about it?
Do you think it's correct or do you think maybe it's a little bit too exaggerated?
Come to our website, EnglishPod.com and tell us about it.
Welcome back to another advanced lesson here at EnglishPod.
And today we're going to be back in the office.
We are listening in as somebody gets a little bit of trouble from their boss for being a
bit late on a project.
Alright so we're going to be at the office.
Somebody misses a deadline and so well how do you handle the situation?
What can you do to explain yourself?
And what language can you actually use to talk about missed deadlines and late work?
Alright so let's see why this person missed the deadline and let's find out what happens.
And so I just wanted to check in with you and find out where we are with this project.
As you know, you missed a fairly significant deadline last week and this will negatively
impact the team's ability to move forward with the next stages of this project.
I'm really sorry that I missed the deadline.
But really it wasn't my fault.
You see we had all of these unexpected technical problems at the last minute and I couldn't
get into the database and extract the kind of information that I needed for the data
analysis.
You know if the tech guys would have done their job and kept the CRM stable then I wouldn't
have missed my deadline.
Oh come on!
An excuse like that is tantamount to lying.
You're essentially blaming the tech team for your time management issues rather than accepting
responsibility for the fact that you were procrastinating for the past two weeks.
No I'm not trying to pass the buck here.
I know it was me who was ultimately responsible for getting this done.
But the thing is I could have finished on time if the system hadn't gone down.
And you know with everything I've got going on now I can't afford to waste time dealing
with technical problems.
I've got a lot on my plate and there are only 24 hours in a day.
I'm not going to accept this excuse.
You're using these small technical glitches as a crutch and trying to rationalize the
fact that you've missed your deadline.
Look we have standards and I expect you to live up to those standards.
No more phony excuses.
If you're in over your head you tell me.
No more missed deadlines.
Now I want that data on my desk by 9 a.m.
Well it sounds like this guy isn't really accepting a lot of the responsibility for
his missed deadline.
Well apparently he's explaining that it wasn't only his fault.
So some technical problems but you know he used a lot of pretty pretty interesting language
and I think it'll help us to look at that now in Language Takeaway.
So on Language Takeaway today we have five words and let's start with the first one.
Well the boss is not really happy with the excuse that the employee was giving and he
said an excuse like that is tantamount to lying.
Tantamount.
Tantamount to something.
OK so if an excuse like that is tantamount to lying what is what is he trying to say
here.
Basically it's the same as or it's almost the same as.
So similar to.
So if I say tantamount to something else how would I use it.
You know Marco taking my computer without asking is tantamount to stealing.
OK so even though I'm not actually stealing it or taking it home with me.
It is almost like stealing.
And the interesting grammatical thing here is that we almost always use a gerund right
after so tantamount to verb ing.
OK tantamount to stealing tantamount to lying tantamount to killing.
Well on that happy note let's go on to our next word.
Now the boss was really unhappy with the employee for procrastinating.
Procrastinating.
So the verb is to procrastinate.
And when you procrastinate you say I'll do it later I'll do it tomorrow.
OK so you kind of delay things or you leave it for another day.
So to procrastinate.
A favorite verb amongst college students.
I actually thought for a little while that procrastinate was to have babies.
It's kind of similar.
What's the word.
Procreate.
So I thought procrastinate was like having babies like why are you procrastinating.
And I'm like I'm not.
Well glad you got that straight.
So yes our listeners procrastinate is not the same as procreate.
I learned that the hard way.
Well it sounds like you had a little bit of a glitch in your understanding of language
and that's our next phrase.
So in the dialogue they were talking about some glitches with the system.
A glitch in the system.
So a glitch.
Now this is common among computers right.
A glitch is an error.
So when you're talking about a glitch and you're talking about computers it's an error
a mistake.
But we also use it to talk about any unexpected problem.
A small unexpected problem.
So a small glitch.
There was a glitch in our plan and we arrived 10 minutes late.
Or I can say this movie has a glitch in the story.
So there's a small problem in the story that doesn't make sense.
So the boss was blaming his lateness on these small technical glitches.
But the boss didn't believe this right.
The boss said you're trying to rationalize the fact that you missed the deadline.
To rationalize.
So the boss is saying that he's trying to rationalize.
So that means is he trying to make sense of it.
Well this is an interesting psychological word.
Because when you rationalize something you think about it or describe it like especially
some bad behavior in a way that makes it seem better or proper or more sensible.
So you're trying to convince yourself.
You're telling other people but you're also telling yourself that it's better.
Or that you're right when you're actually wrong.
So he was trying to rationalize the fact that he missed the deadline.
So he was trying to explain to the boss and also kind of make himself believe that it
wasn't really his fault when it was.
Now because this is a little bit of a difficult concept to understand I think we should hear
You can't rationalize your son's behavior by saying he's going through a hard time.
As much as I tried I couldn't rationalize buying such an expensive pair of shoes.
You know it was the wrong thing to do.
Stop trying to rationalize it.
So clear as daylight now this word rationalize.
In our final word.
So the boss really wasn't happy with these excuses and he said no more phony excuses.
Phony.
P-H-O-N-Y.
So phony is basically false or fake.
So a phony statement.
A phony watch.
A fake watch.
Not a Sony watch but a phony watch.
A phony.
So a lot of great words in this dialogue but as you mentioned we also saw some very interesting
phrases that we can use in situations like this.
So why don't we start now with Fluency Builder.
Well you know one of the interesting things about English is that we have a lot of ways
to make things sound more direct less direct harder or softer and in this dialogue there
are a few examples of how we use softening words to but just to do the opposite to actually
make it a little strong.
So why don't we start with the first paragraph in the first part of the dialogue.
He said you missed a fairly significant deadline.
A fairly significant deadline.
Now this word fairly kind of sort of.
So it's not very significant.
It's kind of significant.
But in this context when when the person is saying it it just sounds a little bit softer
but your understanding is it's a very important deadline.
A very important deadline.
So another similar example of this is the boss was saying you're essentially blaming
the tech team.
You're essentially blaming.
So essentially is like basically or pretty much.
So it sounds a little softer but what he's actually really saying is you're doing this.
So instead of saying you're blaming the tech team he adds this word essentially to kind
of say well basically you're saying it's their fault.
But the context or you understand that it's actually very direct and he's saying it's
your fault.
So he's he's he's saying you're almost blaming the tech team but what he means is you're
blaming the tech team.
Now our third phrase is very interesting because it's kind of like a saying.
So the employee says I'm not trying to pass the buck here.
I'm not trying to pass the buck here.
I'm not trying to pass the buck.
Now what's the buck.
A dollar bill.
So he's well I understand that he's saying I'm not trying to blame somebody else or pass
the blame on to someone else.
But you can think about it like this.
Like imagine he had some fake or phony money right.
And he wants to pass that on to the next person so he doesn't get in trouble.
So I'm not trying to pass the buck.
I'm not trying to pass the blame put the responsibility on someone else.
But you know what you know what he really means here.
What I am trying to do that because he knew.
He knew that it was a fake dollar bill.
And this is interesting as well because it's kind of like a metaphor.
He said the boss said you're using the small technical glitches as a crutch.
So using something as a crutch.
Now the crutch is a you know when you when you break your leg you use those wooden or
metal sticks to walk with.
OK to help you walk.
So the boss is basically saying you're using these technical glitches as an excuse or as
an aid to why you missed the deadline.
So if you think about it like this some people might say OK if you walk with a crutch then
you you won't succeed.
Because whatever.
So this guy this employee is basically saying yes I know that I should meet deadlines but
these these problems these glitches are like my crutch that make me not succeed.
So he's trying to just make excuses.
So God Marco that is a little bit difficult to understand.
Do you think we should give a couple more examples.
Yeah I think I think some more examples would be very useful.
So let's listen to a couple of them now.
I realized that I was using alcohol as a crutch to get through the day.
I think Bill's very capable of being successful but he uses his disability as a crutch example
three.
Stop using your weight as a crutch just because you're a bit fat doesn't mean you can't get
a great job.
So a lot of great phrases great words and well I think it's time for us to listen to
this dialogue for the last time and then we'll come back and talk about this aspect of meeting
deadlines.
As you know you've missed a fairly significant deadline last week and this will negatively
I know I'm really sorry that I missed the deadline but really it wasn't my fault.
Oh come on.
This employee got in a lot of trouble for missing his deadline.
I think it's a very important aspect of not only Western culture but also in general assuming
guilt when it's your fault.
In this case we saw that the employee didn't really want to accept the fact that it was
his fault.
He didn't say yeah I know it was me I'm sorry and this is my plan to fix it.
Now this is very important among cultures because in some cultures the aspect of losing
face is so important right?
So somebody may not really want to assume guilt or they have to because it's part of
the culture.
But what's the standard in North American business practice?
I would say that you would have to assume responsibility and take responsibility for
your actions right and say yes it's my fault I did it but I'm going to get it fixed or
I'll do it or I'll make up for it.
So some good business tips here today in this lesson.
Now remember if you have any questions about the language or want to tell us a little bit
about how you assume responsibility in your culture visit our website at EnglishPod.com.
Right we're always there to help you out and until next time.
Thanks for listening and goodbye!
And today we're bringing you part 9 of our romantic drama suspense action series, I'm
This is actually our penultimate lesson.
Exactly, this story will end in part 10, so we're almost done.
Well, I am pretty excited to find out, so why don't we go straight into the dialogue
and catch up with Steven and Veronica.
Veronica, wait.
Come on, honey, get back in the car.
Let's talk it over, okay?
No, I'm tired of your lies.
I don't know who you are anymore.
Veronica, it's me, the man that has and always will love you.
I'm sorry that I've lied to you, believe me.
It's been hard for me as well.
And time and again, I've thought of coming clean.
But I couldn't put you or my mission at risk.
It's all over now.
My assignment is complete.
And now I have to go back to India.
Are you kidding?
Is there anything else I should know before I never see you again?
How could you deceive me like that?
Veronica, I know that this isn't the best time and you probably hate me right now, but
I want to be completely forthright with you.
I know deep in my heart that you are the best thing that has ever happened to me.
Veronica, will you marry me?
Come with me to India, baby.
I can't make it for everything that's happened, but I can promise you my undying love.
I will be the most devoted husband and I will cherish you always.
Steven, I can't just leave everything at the drop of a hat.
With everything that has happened between us, I just don't know you anymore.
I just can't build a relationship on a foundation of lies.
I do love you, but I can't go with you.
This is the last call for flight A15 from Los Angeles to Hyderabad.
We can't wait any longer.
You must board the plane.
Are you waiting for someone?
I was, but I don't think she's coming.
All right, so it seems like our poor Steven is going home by himself.
It's so sad.
She proposed, she didn't accept, and now he's going back to India by himself.
I think this must be one of the worst feelings in the world, wondering if the person you
love is going to show up at the last minute and realizing they aren't.
I think it's very common of movies, you always expect the person to come running and show
up, but as you can see, our dialogues are more realistic, so it didn't happen in this
occasion.
More realistic.
Anyway, let's not debate that topic.
Let's go straight into the language now with Language Takeaway.
All right, so today on Language Takeaway, we have six words that we're going to be looking
at and let's get started with the first one.
Okay, so we've got language about love and language about telling the truth.
And the first one is a word about telling the truth.
So Steven said, I've thought of coming clean.
Okay, to come clean.
To come clean.
Now if I want to come clean, it means I want to...
You want to admit to something or to tell the truth about something you've been hiding.
Okay, so I want to finally tell the truth or confess.
So someone needs to come clean about who stole the chocolate out of the kitchen.
Okay, come clean.
So Steven wanted to come clean on many occasions, but Veronica said, how could you deceive me
like that?
Deceive someone.
How could you deceive me?
So to deceive someone.
All right, to deceive.
When you deceive somebody, you make them believe something that is untrue.
So you kind of trick them.
Okay, make them believe or see something that is not really true.
All right, so that's the verb, to deceive.
Now the noun, the action of doing this is called deception.
It was all a great deception.
Okay, so a big trick, something, a big untruth.
You deceived me.
And now the opposite of deceive.
Is to be forthright.
Forthright.
So Steven wants to be completely forthright with Veronica.
Okay, I want to be forthright with you.
All right, when you are forthright with somebody, you are very honest and truthful with them,
Direct.
You don't defend everything directly.
So you don't hide it or soften it or anything.
So forthright.
All right, so three words about honesty.
Now we've got three words about love for you.
So Steven promised Veronica his undying love.
My undying love.
Now undying.
Well, I think it's pretty easy, right?
It won't die.
It won't die, exactly.
So he's offering her his love forever.
A very romantic phrase.
And he also promised to be a devoted husband.
Devoted husband.
I'll be the most devoted husband.
Now this word devoted, what am I saying there?
So as a devoted husband, Steven really, really would love his wife.
He'd really look after her well and he would put all of his energy into his marriage, right?
Okay, so he would be very committed to her.
And work really hard.
Now can I change the noun husband for something else?
Yeah, we can talk about a devoted friend.
Or a devoted father.
Or a devoted employee.
And our last word about love.
Well, Steven also promises to cherish Veronica.
Okay, I will cherish you always.
I will cherish you always.
So if I cherish somebody like my girlfriend, what would that mean?
That means you hold her in your heart, like you really love her and you really respect
her and you hold her close in your heart.
Okay, so I respect her and maybe you don't take that person for granted.
To cherish someone.
Alright, so some nice honesty words, some nice love words and I think now we can move
on to some interesting phrases with Fluency Builder.
Alright, so Veronica was upset.
She didn't want to get back in the car and Steven said, let's talk it over, okay?
Let's talk it over.
To talk something over.
Now if I tell you that I want to talk it over, what am I saying?
Well obviously you want to talk about it, right?
But you want to talk about it for some time.
To really talk about all of the problems and the issues and everything.
So to try and make things clear.
So when he was confessing, he said, time and again I've thought of coming clean.
So this phrase, time and again.
Time and again.
So that's basically the same as saying again and again or many times.
So time and again I've thought of quitting smoking but never really have done it.
So you've thought many times of doing it.
Alright, so let's go to our next phrase.
Now Veronica said, I can't just leave everything at the drop of a hat.
At the drop of a hat.
So this is a very interesting and colloquial way of saying immediately.
So why don't we hear a few examples of how this is used in English.
My boss expects me to come into work at the drop of a hat.
Laura is always willing to help me at the drop of a hat.
I can't leave at the drop of a hat.
I need time to prepare.
Okay, so as you can see, you can change it for different things but basically you're
saying I can't do something immediately.
Yeah, and it is almost always attached to this idea of doing something or going somewhere,
being somewhere.
Alright, now our final phrase here for this lesson.
So Veronica was saying I can't go to India at the drop of a hat and she also said I just
can't build a relationship on a foundation of lies.
Okay, a foundation of lies.
To build something on a foundation of lies.
Now this is interesting.
Let's take a look at this.
Foundation what is that?
Well you know you have a house, right?
And the part that's in the ground that supports the house is the foundation.
Okay, so it supports the entire structure.
So here she refers to the lies as the foundation.
And that's no way to start a strong relationship, is it?
So we use it metaphorically in this way but we can always, but we always have to say it,
but we always have to use the verb build.
Okay, so it's basically to make something on a base of something else, right?
So for example, a strong relationship is built on a foundation of trust.
Or this country was built on a foundation of liberty.
So always use foundation with built.
And well I think we should listen to this dialogue for the last time and then we'll
come back and talk a little bit more about Veronica and Steven.
Come on, honey.
Get back in the car.
I'm tired of your lies.
It's been hard for me as well and time and again I've thought of coming clean.
My assignment is complete and now I have to go back to India.
Veronica, I know that this isn't the best time and you probably hate me right now but
I can't make it for everything that's happened but I can promise you my undying love.
Stephen, I can't just leave everything at the drop of a hat.
I do love you but I can't go with you.
I was but I don't think she's coming.
So Marco, I think I see a bit of a tear there in the corner of your eye.
I'm very sad.
I can't believe he proposed and she just said no.
Just like that.
Well, it's not supposed to happen.
Plus, he was inviting her to India and exotic getaway and promising.
Exotic getaway for the rest of her life.
Well, what do you think will happen?
Part 10, it all ends.
So do you think they all just keep on living their separate lives?
Will they meet again?
Who knows?
Come to our website and tell us what you think will happen.
So you can find us at EnglishPod.com.
Don't miss our finale of this lesson and until next time, we'll see you guys there.
Welcome back to another podcast here at EnglishPod.
And today we have a fun dialogue.
Well, maybe the language in this lesson you won't use every day, but it's fun, it's interesting,
and it's a little bit on the lighter side.
Today we're going to be looking at baby talk.
So we're going to see some of these words that aren't really words.
They're not real words that you can find in the dictionary, but native English speakers
use them when they're talking to little babies.
Yeah, in many languages, there's a rule for how you make baby talk words, right?
But in English, we don't have really clear rules about how you make a word a baby word.
So we're going to teach you a few of these baby words.
So before we listen to the dialogue, why don't we take a look at vocabulary preview.
Okay, we have two words here we're going to hear in the dialogue.
And the first one is diaper.
Diaper.
Okay, so a diaper, a baby uses a diaper.
It's a piece of cloth or material that you put around the baby so that it can go to the
bathroom and not make a mess.
Okay, a diaper.
Now we also have another word that we commonly use in the English language, it's Nana.
Nana.
So Nana is the name we call a grandmother.
Right, so an informal name, just like in Spanish, we would say something like Abue or Abuelita.
Or in Italian, you might say Oma.
This is another way that we can call a grandma or granny.
Okay, so Nana.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue for the first time, let's see how these new parents
are talking to their little baby using baby talk.
Honey, the baby's up again.
I went last night.
Hello, little baby.
Why are you crying, little baby?
Oh, I see, you made a doo-doo.
What's going on, hon?
Why is the baby crying?
The little baby made a doo-doo.
What a good boy.
Let's get this icky diaper off you.
Look at what I have here.
Mickey Mouse jammies.
Oopsie daisy, did the little baby just tinkle all over daddy?
Yes, he did.
You just made a wee-wee all over daddy.
Hold still while I change his yucky diaper.
What's going on in here?
Oh, look, it's Nana.
Say hi to Nana.
Oh, he's so adorable.
I could just eat him up.
Okay, say hi to Nana.
Hi, Nana.
Okay, say bye to Nana.
Time to go beddy-bye.
Okay, well, that was pretty cute, wasn't it?
A cute dialogue.
The baby seemed to be cute and, well, everyone's excited about the new baby.
But they use some really interesting little words that are pretty unfamiliar.
All right, so as we mentioned before, these words aren't actually words.
You won't find them in the dictionary.
Right, but you'll hear them commonly when people are talking to babies and you might
see them in a movie or something like that.
So why don't we get started with the first one?
All right, the first word that may seem a little bit strange.
The father said, hello, widdle baby.
Widdle baby.
Okay, widdle.
So widdle is just a baby talk way of saying little.
Little, that's right.
Now the father saw that the baby was crying because he made a doo-doo.
The baby made the doo-doo, not the father.
Right, the baby made a doo-doo.
A doo-doo.
Okay, so basically a doo-doo is when the baby poos or poops in the diaper.
Okay, so, you know, sometimes you go to the bathroom and it might take a little bit longer.
That's because of the doo-doo.
The doo-doo.
Right, the actual technical or maybe the proper English word for this would be defecate.
Okay, so make a doo-doo.
All right, now our third words are interesting because he said icky diaper.
That's right, an icky diaper.
And then he also said yucky.
So we've got two words here that mean the same thing, icky and yucky.
And basically means disgusting.
Right, something that's really, really not nice.
So you would say icky or yucky.
Now these words have other similar words.
We might recognize ick or yuck.
Right, so you would use ick or yuck if something is disgusting, but when you're kind of talking
to a baby, you would say icky, yucky, smelly.
Yes, the adjective.
Now our next word, the father said he has some Mickey Mouse jammies.
Jammies.
Okay, so what are jammies?
Well the word jammies is short for pajamas.
Okay, pajamas, so the clothes that you put on when you go to sleep.
All right, and now for our last two words, they mean the same thing as well.
The little baby tinkled all over daddy.
So to tinkle.
And then his mom said a wee-wee all over daddy.
You made a wee-wee.
Okay, so tinkle and wee-wee.
Usually also going to the bathroom, but this time to pee.
To pee, exactly.
To urinate.
A wee-wee.
So the verb to tinkle and the noun a wee-wee.
So these are the words that we have for you today in language takeaway.
As you can see, they're kind of cute and very common when you're talking to babies and you
know, you have to be a little bit nicer.
All right, so why don't we listen to the dialogue another time, a little bit slower, and you'll
catch these words a little bit easier.
Oh, I see.
You made a doo-doo.
Oopsie daisy.
Did the little baby just tinkle all over daddy?
Yes he did.
Hold still while I change this yucky diaper.
So now that we've seen those great words, let's take a look at two phrases that we're
going to look at now in Fluency Builder.
So the mother didn't really want to get up and look after the baby.
She said, it's your turn.
So when she says, it's your turn.
That means you should do it now.
So she's basically saying, now you have to do it.
I did it last time, so now you have to do it.
And, well, the Nana, the grandmother, she was really, of course she really loves this
little baby, and she said, I could just eat him up.
Now does she want to really eat him?
No, of course.
Of course not.
So what does she mean by this?
This is a phrase we often use with very cute things.
It just means, oh my God, he's so cute.
Okay, he's so cute that I wish I could just hug him and kiss him a lot.
Yes, we might use this with babies or maybe with puppies.
So great two phrases that we've just taken a look at.
Let's go back to our dialogue for the last time, and then we'll come back and talk a
little bit more about these babies.
I see you made a doo-doo.
Oh look, it's Nana.
Say bye to Nana.
Okay, so they are obviously new parents.
They've just had a baby, so they're excited about him waking up.
They're all excited about the baby and how he wakes up and everything.
But an interesting thing, the baby was sleeping in another room.
In English-speaking countries, people have sort of two different opinions about how you
should sleep with your baby.
Some people want to have the baby in the bed with them, right?
But some people think, no, the baby should definitely sleep in its own room.
Okay, in another room in a crib.
I think this is a very important issue because many people consider that it's a good thing
for the baby to sleep with the parents and it feels safe and you can make sure the baby's
okay.
And it's easier for waking up to feed the baby and change his diaper.
And well, if the baby is sleeping with its parents, it might not wake up as much.
But other people think if you let the baby sleep with the parents, the baby will become
kind of spoiled and not a very good baby.
It might become too dependent on the parents.
And for example, if you ever want to go out or leave the baby with a babysitter or when
the baby starts maybe preschool or kindergarten, it might not be really independent.
So why don't you tell us what you think?
Do you think it's a good idea to allow a baby to sleep with you or should it sleep in its
own room?
Yeah, you can tell us at our website EnglishPod.com where you can also ask any questions you have
about the language in this dialogue.
So we'll see you there and until next time.
And today we have a fun and scary dialogue.
This lesson is full of language you can use to talk about being scared.
Alright, so we're gonna be looking at a scary lesson today and we have nothing to preview
so let's listen to this dialogue and see why everyone is so scared.
Hey, why are we at this scary looking mansion?
It's like ultra spooky.
I told you already Shabby.
The owner of the house says there's a ghost haunting his house.
So we have to go in and investigate.
I don't like this.
Come on guys, stop being such cowards.
It's a mystery and an adventure.
This place gives me the creeps.
Seriously guys, let's get out of here.
I'm getting goosebumps just being here.
Shabby is a scaredy cat.
That laugh came from this room.
Let's go and check it out.
Look, a ghost!
Well, that sounds really scary but actually it kind of reminds me of another TV show.
Very similar to another TV show but it's different.
Okay, but some interesting language that you can use to talk about things that are scary
so why don't we look at that now in Language Takeaway.
So let's start with the very first line of our dialogue.
Shabby described the mansion to be ultra spooky.
It's ultra spooky.
Spooky.
So, okay, we've got two interesting words here, ultra and spooky.
Now spooky is scary, right?
It's a little bit scary.
It maybe makes you feel a little bit uncomfortable or maybe it makes you feel a little bit scared.
Okay, so not very scared.
Not super scared.
But ultra spooky.
So ultra is another way of saying super or very or really spooky.
So if it's ultra spooky then it's...
Very scary.
All right, so our next word.
They said that in the house there is a ghost haunting the house.
Okay, there is a ghost haunting his house.
Okay, so the verb to haunt.
Okay, to haunt.
So the ghost is coming to the house frequently and not letting them live in peace.
When a ghost haunts something, it visits it often and scares it.
Now, they were all afraid and they didn't want to go in and so Wilma called everyone
cowards.
Stop being such cowards.
Cowards.
So, a coward.
A coward is a person that's not brave.
A person who's scared of everything.
So, they were being cowards.
They were afraid so that's why they didn't want to go in.
Well, speaking of being afraid, Shabby said, I'm getting goose bumps.
Goose bumps.
To get goose bumps.
All right, to get goose bumps.
Now, goose bumps, it may sound a little bit strange but it's very easy when you're scared
or maybe you're cold, the skin on your arms or on your back, it gets a little bit bumpy.
So your skin looks like chicken skin.
Exactly, chicken skin and that's actually how we call it in Spanish, chicken skin but
this is goose bumps so I guess it's kind of similar.
A goose.
Yeah, same idea.
All right and finally, Scruffy said, Shabby is a scaredy cat.
A scaredy cat.
You're a scaredy cat.
Well, a scaredy cat is not really a cat, right?
It's a person who's afraid of everything.
Similar to a coward.
But more informal.
Much more informal.
So somebody is a scaredy cat and I think even a little bit more juvenile.
As adults.
So children use it.
Yeah, as adults, you wouldn't say he's a scaredy cat.
So some interesting scary language.
I think we need to hear it one more time slowed down in the dialogue.
Eddie, why are we at this scary looking mansion?
I told you already, Shabby.
Come on, guys.
Seriously, guys.
Just get out of here.
Look, a ghost.
Run.
Okay, so now that we understand all the vocabulary we saw in language takeaway, why don't we
take a look at two phrases now in Fluency Builder.
Well, Shabby said we're at this scary looking mansion.
Scary looking mansion.
So a scary looking mansion.
Okay, so the mansion looks scary.
All right, so a mansion is a big house, right?
That looks very scary.
Now this is a really useful and helpful pattern you can use with English.
Something looking.
So adjective looking.
Right, so you can say good looking.
And there's lots of examples, so why don't we hear a few more now.
That guy is making me nervous.
He's really creepy looking.
I saw the craziest looking house today.
It was built upside down.
What a nice looking dog.
Can I pet him?
All right, great examples, and now we know how we can combine looking with different
adjectives.
For our next phrase, Shabby said this place gives me the creeps.
All right, gives me the creeps.
To give someone the creeps.
So if something gives you the creeps.
It makes you feel uncomfortable and scared.
Maybe scared, maybe nervous.
Okay, so why don't we give some examples.
I could say, hey Marco, see that guy over there?
He keeps looking at me.
He's giving me the creeps.
Okay, or I can say clowns give me the creeps.
Oh, that's right.
You're afraid of clowns.
I am afraid of clowns.
They give me the creeps.
All right, well, it's a really helpful, useful phrase to use when you're talking about being
afraid.
Now why don't we listen to the dialogue one final time?
I told you already shabby.
Okay, so an interesting dialogue about ghosts and haunted houses.
So what do you think, Erica?
Do you believe in ghosts?
Have you ever seen a ghost?
No, I totally do not believe in ghosts.
But I understand that you disagree with me.
Well, I've experienced strange things, but I don't know if it was a ghost or an alien.
It could have been anything.
An alien?
An invisible alien.
So what happened?
Well, once I was having dinner with my parents and we had a table and on top of the table,
there was a glass full of water.
And all of a sudden it started to move across the table and then it started to spin while
it moved.
And was there an earthquake or something happening?
No, nothing.
We were just, the only thing on the whole table that was moving was that.
And we all just kind of stared at the glass moving and we didn't know what to do.
And then my mom started kind of giggling a nervous laugh and we really didn't know what
happened.
Now, I understand that in Latin America, people are more superstitious.
They believe more in ghosts, right?
In Latin America, people are very superstitious.
They believe in ghosts or in spirits or we have a lot of urban legends about, you know,
like a leprechaun that lives under a bridge or, you know, somebody's grandma that comes
and haunts them or visits them at night and stuff like that.
So yeah, Latin American people are very superstitious in this sense.
Yeah, I think in Anglo countries, it's a little bit less common to say that you believe in
ghosts.
Like maybe inside you, you think ghosts are true, but you wouldn't really tell people
that.
I think the difference would be that you have a different type of superstition.
Like people are afraid of black cats or the floor or the number 13.
Yeah, or opening your umbrella in a house.
So, because they consider it to be bad luck, but not because something like a ghost or
an alien is going to come out and eat them.
So listeners, why don't you tell us what you think about ghosts?
Are people superstitious in your country?
Do they believe in ghosts?
Come to our website, EnglishPod.com and let us know and we'll see you guys there.
Well, thanks for downloading and goodbye!
And my name is Erika.
Today we're bringing you another one of our sports lessons and this time we're going to
go to a boxing match.
So we're going to be learning a language that you can use if you're talking about boxing,
but not only boxing, right?
We can also use this language for describing a fight or somebody that's fighting.
Okay, so not that we're asking our listeners to get into fights, but if ever you see a
fight, at least now you'll have the language to talk about it.
So let's listen to a dialogue for the first time.
It might sound familiar.
We have the legendary Rocky Balboa at EnglishPod fighting for the heavyweight championship.
So let's see what happens.
Welcome back, boxing fans.
My name is Rick Fields and here with me is the man with the iron jaw, Bob Copeland.
We're coming to you live from Las Vegas.
We're in the beautiful MGM Grand Hotel and Casino where the World Heavyweight Championship
is about to get underway.
We're about to witness the legendary Italian stallion himself, Rocky Balboa, square off
against his lifetime rival, Apollo Creed.
This will be a gruesome match for sure.
Both fighters are in the ring and we are about to begin.
In the blue corner, weighing in at 220 pounds, the former heavyweight champion of the world,
the master of disaster, the one and only Apollo Creed.
In the red corner, weighing 218 pounds and with a record of 47 wins and 37 knockouts,
the undefeated, undisputed heavyweight champion of the world, the Italian stallion, Rocky
Balboa.
There's the bell and this fight is underway.
Apollo quickly attacks Rocky with quick, strong jabs.
He dodges successfully and counterattacks with a strong right hook.
Apollo is cut.
Rocky landed a strong blow to his right eyebrow and cut him.
This is his chance.
Rocky quickly throws a left, right, another left.
Apollo is getting pounded.
Apollo recovers with a powerful haymaker and catches Rocky off guard.
He's down.
The ref starts the count.
One, two, three, four, five.
Wow sounds like a great fight.
Amazing fight and I don't know who's going to win.
Rocky apparently got knocked down.
What do you think will happen?
Well, if I know anything about Rocky Balboa, he will not stay knocked down for long.
Let's take a look at some of the language we saw in this dialogue in Language Takeaway.
Well, Rickfield said that we have a very gruesome match tonight.
A gruesome match.
Gruesome.
So, if something is gruesome.
It's really, it's bad, it's terrible, it's bloody.
Bloody, terrible, very hard or like a gruesome fight would be a very bloody fight.
Yeah, or a gruesome film.
So, gruesome.
Now, they mentioned that both fighters are in the ring.
Both fighters are in the ring.
The ring.
So, the ring is the physical space where they fight.
But isn't it square?
Yeah, it is square.
It is not really circular, but it's called a boxing ring.
I'm not really sure why.
Well, maybe one of our listeners knows and can tell us about that because I am not an
expert on boxing.
But what I do know is our next word.
They were describing Rocky Balboa's career and they said he had 37 knockouts.
A knockout.
In this sense, knockout is a noun.
A knockout is when the fighter hits the other fighter and he falls to the ground and he
can't get up in 10 seconds because he's tired, he's dizzy, he's hurt.
So, that's a knockout.
So, it's a technical boxing word.
It's the action of falling to the ground and not getting up.
But there's also a verb, to knock out.
Or to knock someone out.
So, when you say, I knocked this guy out.
It means I hit him so hard that he fell to the floor and maybe he was unconscious for
a while.
So, he fell asleep basically.
So, it's very similar.
The noun form to the verb form.
So, basically, if you knock someone out, you get a knockout.
So, to knock someone out, a knockout.
Now, for our next word, we saw as Apollo quickly began to jab Rocky Balboa.
So, the noun, a jab.
So, a jab.
Quick jabs.
So, a jab is a kind of punch, right?
It's a fast, short, but not very strong punch.
So, a technical boxing word, a jab.
A jab.
So, it can also be a verb, right?
So, to jab.
To jab.
Now, Apollo was throwing jabs and Rocky began to dodge.
And that's our next word, to dodge.
Dodge.
D-O-D-G-E.
To dodge.
So, if you dodge, you're trying to avoid getting hit.
So, you move your body so that you're not hit.
Now, we can also use it in different ways.
Not only do you dodge when somebody's trying to punch you.
You can also, for example, dodge a bullet.
So, when you dodge a bullet, you avoid some bad situation or some bad event.
So, we have many examples of dodge used in other contexts.
So, why don't we listen to some examples?
See that guy dodging through the traffic?
He's going to get hit by a car if he's not careful.
Well, the storm turned south.
So, it looks like we managed to dodge a bullet.
Look, you're the one who is in charge of sales and the numbers are down.
It's your problem, so stop trying to dodge your responsibilities.
You know, that word reminds me of another sport, dodgeball.
Oh, dodgeball.
Same principle.
Yeah, but that's an entirely different lesson.
I think we need to focus here on the boxing vocabulary.
So, the announcers said that Apollo is getting pounded.
To get pounded.
Now, if someone is getting pounded.
They're getting hit really hard.
And a lot.
So, to get pounded.
Get pounded.
And now, we have one more word and it's also another boxing term called a haymaker.
A powerful haymaker.
So, Apollo received a powerful haymaker.
Now, this word is actually new to me.
So, Marco, what does it mean?
Basically, it's a very strong, very wild punch.
So, you don't have really good form.
Your body is kind of moving all over the place.
So, you don't have much balance.
So, you just throw your entire body and your fist at someone to hit them as hard as you
can.
That's a haymaker.
A technical boxing word here for you guys.
But now, we've got some interesting phrases for you on Fluency Builder.
So, on Fluency Builder today, we're going to take a look at some of these phrases and
we have four of them for you today.
So, let's get started with the first one.
Well, the announcer said that the boxing match was about to get underway.
To get underway.
So, again, this is another way of saying about to begin.
So, we're about to get underway with this new project.
Or the meeting's just about to get underway.
So, make sure everyone's here.
So, the match was about to get underway and the sports announcer said that Rocky Balboa
is going to square off against his lifetime rival.
So, we're going to look at this phrase, to square off against someone.
I'm going to square off against Jim.
When you square off against Jim, you get ready to fight with him or to compete with him,
So, we're about to have a one-to-one competition.
So, this is like a sports word, but it's also really commonly used in a lot of different
contexts.
So, why don't we hear a few more examples of how we can use this phrase to square off.
The two countries are moving their armies close to the borders as they prepare to square
off in a border dispute.
Italy and Brazil are squaring off in the final game this afternoon.
Lisa and Daniel squared off against each other in the marketing meeting today.
They were both pretty angry.
So, great examples, and I think we can use it now not only in boxing, but in other situations.
Now, Bob said that Rocky landed a strong blow.
To land a strong blow.
So, land a strong blow.
Now, let's break this down.
So, a blow.
A blow is a punch or a hit.
And when you land a strong blow, what happens?
You basically successfully hit your opponent with a punch or hit.
So, you hit them, so your fist meets their body.
So, your fist landed on their body.
So, I could also change this a little bit.
I could say, I landed a punch.
Or in boxing terms, he landed a strong left jab.
So, to land a blow.
The announcer described it as Rock threw a left.
To throw a left.
So, he said he threw a left and a right.
Now again, we'll take this one apart.
So, a left.
What are we talking about?
Basically, a left punch, but we can omit punch.
So, it's a punch with your left hand, but the verb throw, you throw a left punch.
So, basically, you punch somebody with your left.
So, it's just another way of saying to punch someone.
To punch someone.
So, Bob started to throw some punches at the other guy.
Look over there.
That guy's throwing punches.
So, to throw a left.
To throw a punch.
Now, again, you can use this in a lot of different ways with a lot of different types of punches.
So, you could say to throw a jab.
Or throw an uppercut.
Or throw a hook.
So, now that we've seen all these phrases, why don't we listen to the dialogue for the
very last time and we'll come back in a little bit.
My name is Rick Fields, and here with me is the man with the iron jaw, Bob Copeland.
We're in the beautiful MGM Grand Hotel and Casino, where the World Heavyweight Championship
We're about to witness the legendary Italian Stallion himself, Rocky Balboa, square off
Both fighters are in the ring, and we are about to begin.
In the red corner, weighing 218 pounds, and with a record of 47 wins and 37 knockouts,
the undefeated, undisputed heavyweight champion of the world, the Italian Stallion, Rocky
There's the bell, and this fight is underway.
Rocky dodges successfully and counterattacks with a strong right hook.
So as I mentioned, Marco, I'm not really that much of a fan or that knowledgeable about
boxing.
And actually, this is becoming a theme in these sports lessons, isn't it?
Well, boxing is a very popular sport in North America.
I'm not really that big of a fan, but I have seen a couple of matches.
And it's very interesting because as we saw in our dialogue, most big fights take place
in Las Vegas at some big hotel.
But you said it's super popular and everyone wants to watch these matches.
And obviously, everyone can't go to Las Vegas.
So what's the common way for most people to watch these boxing matches?
So in the United States, there's something very popular called pay-per-view.
And I'm sure in your countries, you have something similar.
Basically, pay-per-view, you can buy the fight so you can have access to it and watch it
on your TV.
But you only pay one time to watch like maybe two hours, right?
So let's say you're at your house, it's six o'clock and the fight begins at eight.
So you can call your TV cable company or maybe use on the internet with a credit card and
they activate it on your TV so you can watch the fight.
And when it's over, well, you finished watching it.
Now, it's pretty expensive, isn't it?
Pay-per-view can be very expensive depending on what event it is because sometimes it's
boxing matches, concerts or special events.
So it can maybe cost, I don't know, 60, 80, maybe $100.
So it's very popular for one house to buy the pay-per-view and then many friends come
over and everyone chips in with five or $10 and everyone watches it on one TV.
So the pay-per-view boxing party, a common way to watch the sport in America.
Now, why don't you guys visit our website and tell us about boxing.
Do you guys like it?
Do you know anything about it?
Are you guys maybe even boxers yourselves?
Or former boxers.
So we'll see you guys at our website and also if you have any questions or comments, be
sure to leave them there as well.
You can find us at EnglishPod.com and until next time, thanks for listening and goodbye.
Welcome back to another advanced lesson with us here at EnglishPod.
And my name is Erica.
So, today we're bringing you another advanced lesson and this time it's kind of historical.
Like the name suggests, we are listening in as a president says goodbye to the nation
before he steps down from his role as president.
Now actually this dialogue is very much based on President Eisenhower's farewell speech.
So a pretty famous...
Now we have to tell you that we did change the speech a little bit, right?
Just a little bit to make it a little bit more understandable.
But it's basically what he said to the nation back in 1969.
Alright now, I will as well tell you that this is a pretty hard dialogue.
It is very hard because the structures are a little bit complicated and even to a certain
point a little bit poetic, right?
So why are we taking this speech as our dialogue?
What are we going to learn from this?
Well, we're going to learn some structures and some words that you can use maybe on a
resignation letter or maybe in a celebration you want to thank Pete for coming.
Okay, so we're going to learn some pretty difficult vocabulary but also learn some really
useful structures like you said you could use in a resignation letter or even in a formal
speech of your own.
Now, this presidential farewell speech is divided into two parts.
So today we're going to do part one and then next time we'll finish the speech with part
two.
So let's listen to President Eisenhower as he says goodbye to the nation and we'll come
back just in a little bit.
Good evening, my fellow Americans.
Three days from now, after a century of service to our country, I shall lay down the responsibilities
of office as in a traditional and solemn ceremony, the authority of the presidency is vested
in my successor.
This evening I come to you with a message of leave taking and farewell and to share
a few final thoughts with you, my countrymen.
Like every other citizen, I wish the new president and all who will labor with him, Godspeed.
I pray that the coming years will be blessed with peace and prosperity for all.
Our people expect their president and the Congress to find essential agreement on questions
of great importance, the wise resolution of which will better shape the future of our
great nation.
My own relations with Congress began on a remote and tenuous basis when long ago a member
of the Senate appointed me to West Point.
I then had the pleasure of building more intimate relationships with Congress during the war
and the immediate post-war period.
Finally, we have progressed to the mutually interdependent relationship we've had during
these past eight years.
Wow, so Eisenhower is a pretty good speaker, isn't he?
A good speaker and well, he said a lot of really nice things when he was saying goodbye.
Yeah, pretty inspiring, I thought.
Really inspiring and as we said, there were a couple of different and difficult words
and phrases, so why don't we start right now with Language Takeaway.
Well, Eisenhower said that in three days he shall lay down the responsibilities.
To lay down the responsibilities.
All right, lay down something.
Basically, we understand the verb to lay down, right?
To put it down, to put it on the ground.
Right, now he's using it with responsibilities which is a little bit strange but it's kind
of like a metaphor by saying lay down arms, to lay down your weapons.
Right, and you know what?
This is a really common phrase that we would hear especially when we're talking about the
end of a war or something like that.
To lay down your arms, lay down your weapons.
Yeah, so here I think Eisenhower is kind of referencing this and giving us a little bit
of poetry in his speech.
Right, so it's not that he's quitting, it's not that he's being fired, he's just like
finishing what he started.
Yes, so he's laying down his responsibilities.
Now, I think this would be quite an interesting phrase to use for example in a resignation
letter.
Right, so I would say a month from now I will lay down my responsibilities as manager.
Yep, all right, so that sounds pretty good.
Now, he said he's going to be laying down the responsibilities in a traditional and
solemn ceremony.
All right, solemn.
Now, solemn, what does that mean?
What is a solemn ceremony?
Well, a solemn ceremony would be a serious, respectful and a little bit sad ceremony.
Okay, so it's a serious matter and it's very respectful, right?
Yeah, so you might say for example on the 11th of November when you're remembering the
war you might say something like this is a very solemn day.
Okay, and the authority of the presidency is vested in my successor.
Okay, so interesting verb.
So interesting word, vested.
Vested.
The authority vested in my successor.
So this word basically means power that I have by law.
Right, so this power, this important power you have is given to you by the law, by the
president, by the country.
This is a very common word you will hear in a wedding when the priest or the person that's
leading the wedding will say by the power vested in me by the state of California.
Yeah, I now pronounce you husband and wife.
I now pronounce you husband and wife.
So he's saying the power that I have given to me by the state of California I can now
make you be married.
So here Eisenhower is saying the authority of the presidency is vested in my successor.
So the power of the presidency will be given to the next president by law.
And he also wished the new president and everyone with him, he said Godspeed.
All right, Godspeed.
Godspeed.
I wish you Godspeed.
Now, Godspeed, what does that mean?
Well, it's kind of a blessing.
It basically means good luck and good fortune.
And especially in a journey.
Yeah, I think you'd almost only use this when someone's going off on a big trip or a journey.
So here they're going on the journey of the presidency.
So I wish you Godspeed.
And now let's take a look at our last set of words.
When he was talking about Congress, he said that his relation with Congress began on a
remote and tenuous basis.
So two interesting words here, remote and tenuous.
Now, remote, we understand as being far away or distant.
What about tenuous, though?
But tenuous is kind of unimportant or not really relevant.
So actually, this is a pretty high quality, useful and smart sounding word.
So I think we should hear a few more examples of how it's used.
How can you say the earth is actually getting cooler?
That is a pretty tenuous argument.
John believes that Elvis Presley is still alive.
He's got a tenuous hold on reality.
You're making yourself seem more important than you are.
The connection between our company's success and your performance is tenuous at best.
So as we said, these are some pretty difficult words that we found in the dialogue.
But now I want to go and look at some really interesting formal structures that Eisenhower
used here.
On Fluency Builder today, we have three phrases.
And well, starting with the first one, I think it's one of the most interesting ones.
He said, three days from now, after half a century of service of our country, I shall
lay down the responsibilities of office.
So what's interesting about this?
If you take a look at the structure, he's saying three days from now, which is future,
and then he makes a reference to the past after a half century of service.
So we've got future past.
And then again, future, I shall lay down the responsibilities.
So this actually is quite a good structure if you're giving a farewell speech or even
I could imagine using this at a wedding.
How would you use it in a wedding?
I might say, 12 hours for now after a long and beautiful relationship, this couple shall
marry.
So you're making reference to the future and then a past event or something that's been
going on for a while and then future again.
Why don't we do one more example?
So for example, in a resignation letter, I can say, one month from now, after 30 years
of hard work and dedication to this company, I shall lay down my responsibilities as product
manager.
So we can use it and it sounds good.
It sounds very professional.
And very poetic.
Very poetic.
It sounds nice.
So that's a good structure.
Now, why don't we go on to this next kind of very formal and helpful in a very formal
speech?
Well, President Eisenhower said, this evening I come to you with a message of leave taking
and farewell.
So this evening I come to you with a message of leave taking and farewell.
So it's a very nice way of saying, I'm talking to you today because I am saying goodbye.
And what I really like about this phrase is the beginning part.
This evening I come to you with a message of.
So again, let's suppose we're at a wedding.
If I'm offering a toast or I'm the best man, I could say, this evening I come to you with
a message of love and trust and respect.
Or maybe if you're the leader of a company, you might say something like, this afternoon
I come to you with a message of hope for the future.
And now the part when he says leave taking and farewell, it's basically saying taking
leave or taking like a vacation, right?
And farewell is goodbye.
This is actually a bit of a long one.
So I'm going to read it now.
So let's take a look at the first part.
Basically he's saying the people expect the president and the Congress to give them answers,
To agree on important issues.
But in the part when he says the wise resolution of which will better shape the future of our
And this is the part I want to focus on.
The wise resolution of which.
Now this is a really wonderful sort of formal structure.
So we can see what he's doing here.
He's talking about the first idea, right?
So the president and the Congress need to find agreement on important issues, right?
Now the wise resolution of which.
So he's referring back to that idea.
So the wise resolution of what?
Of the essential agreement on questions of great importance.
So really useful structure.
Why don't we hear a few more examples of this?
Example one, we now face a great challenge, the overcoming of which lead us all to untold
riches and success.
Example two, we as a company now face our most difficult months to date, the outcome
of which will determine our company's future.
Example three, the ambitious plan to reduce poverty, the start of which was launched last
Tuesday in New York, will require a huge investment of taxpayers' dollars.
So as you can hear from the examples, we have the main idea and then he passes on, but then
kind of refers back to it again.
And this sounds quite formal, but also quite literary and intelligent.
It makes you sound well-spoken.
This was quite a difficult dialogue with some really interesting and tricky structures and
words.
Let's hear it one more time all together.
This evening, I come to you with a message of leave taking and farewell, and to share
a few final thoughts with you.
My countrymen, like every other citizen, I wish the new president and all who will labor
with him Godspeed.
My own relations with Congress began on a remote and tenuous basis when, long ago, a
member of the Senate appointed me to West Point.
All right, we're back, and here with us in the studio we have Pete, the actor in the
dialogue of President Eisenhower's presidential farewell speech.
He's a pretty convincing actor at that.
Not quite.
So, Pete is going to give us a little bit of insight about President Eisenhower.
All right, so what can you tell us about President Eisenhower?
Well, he started off as a general.
He was an accomplished officer all through the early 20th century, and then he was the
supreme commander of the Allied Expeditionary Force in World War II.
And so now he's most famous for D-Day.
He was leading it?
Or he was on the battlefield?
No, he was the organizer.
He was kind of like the brains behind the operation.
I don't know if you want to leave this in, but there's a really cool document that he
wrote right before the invasion, and it said he basically knew this was going to go one
of two ways, and he wrote down a script to read in case it failed.
And he basically said, you know, I'm sorry to inform you that the invasion did not go
as planned, and this is setback our war effort.
And when the invasion went well, he threw that in the trash, and then one of his aides
found that and was like, wow, this is a historical document.
And they kept the...
So they had the copy.
Alternate history.
All right, so he was an accomplished general, an amazing warrior.
But what about his presidency?
Well, at the beginning, probably the biggest thing he did was to wrap up the Korean War,
which was a vow he made during his campaign.
And then he visited Korea.
Obviously the war is still technically on, but they did arrange a ceasefire.
Eisenhower built up the interstate highway system, which is one of the big reasons that
America was able to become economically successful in the 20th century.
He did it basically so that in case of a war, we'd have an easy way of shipping our soldiers
and nukes across the country.
But it worked well anyways.
Yeah, it's one of these things that pays a side benefit.
At least he had to sell it to the country that way.
It's very likely that he didn't intend ever to use it that way.
But you have to have...
It's like the war on terror.
You got to sell these things.
Well, and I guess it's had a huge impact not only on the economy of the states, but also
like the culture and the way that people view the car and its effect on society.
So pretty influential guy, this Eisenhower.
Yeah, and a very historical lesson.
It's just a little bit of a culture and maybe some insight on American history.
It's not like we're politically active or anything, but yeah, it was some interesting
information there.
And also, well, he was considered to be a pretty good president.
Yeah, he's rated, I wouldn't say among the top five or so, but quite accomplished.
Well, maybe not the greatest president we've ever seen, but he wrote a pretty good farewell
speech.
So I think we have that to thank him for.
All right, guys, so if you have any other questions or comments, you can come to the
website at EnglishPod.com and you can leave them there for Erica or I.
Okay, so thanks for downloading you guys and until next time, goodbye.
And today we have an elementary lesson for you and we are at the supermarket.
We're at the grocery store and we're going to learn some language you can use when you
want to pay for your groceries.
So this lesson was requested by one of our users that wanted vocabulary and different
phrases that are used in the supermarket when the person is about to pay for all the things
they need.
And we also have some great language that the person who is actually selling the groceries
can use.
So let's listen to our dialogue for the first time and see what happens.
Excuse me, sir.
This is the express checkout lane for people who have 15 items or fewer.
It looks like you have more than 15 items there.
Oh, come on.
I have 16 items.
Cut me some slack, will you?
Please place your items on the belt and push your shopping cart through.
Do you prefer paper or plastic?
Plastic.
I also have a couple of coupons.
I'll take those.
Sir, these coupons expired yesterday.
Darn.
Oh, well, I guess it's just not my day.
Do you have a club card or will it be cash?
Yeah, I got a club card.
Will this be debit or credit?
Debit, please.
Also, can I get cash back?
$50 would be great.
Your total is $78.33.
Here's your receipt.
Well, we can see in this dialogue that the guy was able to buy his food and, you know,
they were using some really interesting, helpful language.
So why don't we look at this language now in Language Takeaway.
Okay, we have six words for you today.
And the first one, the girl, the cashier says, this is the express checkout lane.
All right, so checkout lane.
The checkout lane.
So the checkout lane is the place where you get in line to pay for all the goods you bought.
Right, so the checkout lane.
Now, why did she say express checkout lane?
So in grocery stores or in supermarkets, sometimes you have a specific checkout lane that's faster.
Because people have less things.
So express is the faster checkout lane.
Right, the faster one.
All right, so next she tells the guy to put your items on the belt.
Okay, the belt.
The belt.
A belt.
So you think about belt as the thing you put around your waist.
To keep your pants up.
Right, but in a supermarket, the belt is the moving table that you put your groceries on
so the cashier starts to pass them through.
Okay, so the belt.
Put your groceries on the belt.
And then the guy said that he had a couple of coupons.
Coupons.
A coupon.
Okay, so what is a coupon?
A coupon is a piece of paper you can use to get a discount.
All right, so it has a discount on it.
A discount for one thing.
So maybe you buy some apples and you get 10% off one kind of apple.
Very good, coupons.
Now he presented these coupons and she said they were expired.
The coupons expired yesterday.
Expired.
To expire.
All right, so to expire.
That means to be older than the date when you can use them.
Right, so why don't we listen to some other examples of how we can use expired so we can
understand a little bit better.
This credit card expired five years ago.
You can't use it anymore.
My driver's license expires in a month, so I have to get it renewed.
Don't drink that.
The milk has expired.
Okay, so we can see his coupons expired, so they were too old and he couldn't use them
anymore.
And now, finally, she asked him if he wants to pay with his club card or cash.
So club card.
Club card.
What's a club card?
So in some supermarkets, you can receive a special type of credit card that you can only
use for grocery shopping.
And only in that store.
So that is a club card.
All right, so a club card.
Okay, so he's going to pay with a card, but he also asked for some cash back.
Cash back.
Could I get cash back?
Now, what's he talking about?
Can he get cash back?
He's paying with a card.
What does he want to do?
Well, what happens is sometimes, suppose your groceries cost $20.
So instead of charging $20 to your credit card or your club card, you say, okay, put
$70.
So then the cashier can give you $50 back.
So you can have cash in your pocket.
So instead of going to the ATM, you can get your money in one spot.
So that's cash back.
We're going to hear this one more time in the dialogue, but let's slow it down a little
so we can understand better.
This is the express checkout lane for people that have 15 items or fewer.
Get me some slack, will you?
Thanks, anyway.
Here is your receipt.
So now that we've listened to the dialogue for the second time, it's time for us to take
a look at some phrases in Fluency Builder.
Okay, we have three phrases for you now.
Well, the guy was not having a very good day, was he?
So he couldn't go in the express checkout lane and he says, cut me some slack.
Cut me some slack.
To cut someone some slack.
Now, this is an interesting and very informal phrase.
So before we explain it, why don't we listen to a couple of other examples?
I'm only two minutes late.
My wife just had a baby and I'm so tired.
I'll send you the report tomorrow.
Emily had a really bad week.
I think you should cut her some slack.
Okay, I think I can understand it means relax the rules a little bit.
So don't be so strict on me.
Yeah, don't be so hard.
Now, I know this phrase actually comes from mountain climbing.
Oh, because of the rope.
So it's just, it's like saying the slack is loose rope.
So he's just saying, give me a little bit more freedom.
Give me more freedom.
Oh, interesting.
To cut somebody some slack.
Well, now the cashier asked him a question.
She says, do you prefer paper or plastic?
Paper or plastic.
Now, this is the common cliche phrase that any grocery store cashier will use, right?
Paper or plastic what?
Bags.
Paper or plastic bags.
So you'll hear this all the time in every grocery store.
Do you want paper or plastic?
So you can choose plastic bags or paper bags.
Remember this one because when you get it right, you'll sound really native-like.
And our last phrase, since he wasn't really having a good day, he said, it's just not
my day.
It's just not my day.
It's not my day.
Okay, so when it's not your day, it means the day has been hard.
You've not really lucky.
It's not a good day for you.
Not a good day.
So let's listen to the dialogue for the last time and then we'll come back and talk a little
bit about grocery stores in America.
Debit please.
One interesting thing I know about grocery stores in America is that the people who are
the cashiers are very often students.
It's a very popular summer job or part-time job of college students.
Or even in my hometown, it was the most common job for high school students.
After school, if you went to the grocery store between 4 o'clock and 9 o'clock at night,
every single cashier would be a high school student.
And the interesting thing is that the cashiers are usually women, right?
Yeah, always the high school girls who are the cashiers.
And so the high school boys would be working in the back, maybe in the warehouse carrying
boxes or stocking the shelves.
So putting the cans on the shelves, right?
It's a very popular part-time job for students in the United States, but also coupons are
very popular in America.
What is it about coupons?
Well, usually, for example, in the Sunday newspaper, you will receive a lot of coupons.
You go to the grocery store and you have all these coupons for like cookies or a promotion
on some type of soda or drink.
So it's very popular.
People go grocery shopping and then present all these coupons.
And actually, you can end up saving a good amount of money.
I know the coupons are usually like, save two cents or save 25 cents.
But I guess if you put all of those together, you can save money.
It's interesting because people actually will buy that product just because they have a
coupon for it.
Coupons and high school checkout girls.
Well, guys, thanks for listening to this show.
Now, remember, if you have any questions about the language we were talking about in this
show, please visit our website at EnglishPod.com.
Leave all your questions and comments there.
And also, if you have any other suggestions or any doubts, please let us know and we'll
see you guys there.
So thanks for listening and until next time.
And today we're looking at another one of our lessons for English of the past decades.
And this time, it's the 1990s.
Well, you know, the 1990s is a little easier for most of us to remember.
Yeah, I guess it's a little bit more recent.
We're going to be looking at a lot of language that is still used today.
Most of these words and phrases are still used today.
So they're going to be very useful.
And you're going to sound a lot more native.
A lot cooler as well, huh?
So before we get started with this lesson, why don't we take a look at vocabulary preview?
Now the first one is a mall.
A mall.
All right, so a mall is basically short for shopping mall.
And a shopping mall is a big building with many stores inside.
So it's like a shopping center.
And our last word for vocabulary preview is gang.
The gang.
Okay, so a gang is a group of people, right?
Yeah, it's a group of people.
You can call your friends the gang.
We're going to go out with the gang tonight.
And we sometimes hear this word and it has a negative meaning, right?
Right, like street gang.
Yeah, so people who fight and deal drugs and all that sort of stuff.
So it can have a negative and a positive meaning, but it just depends on how you use it.
Yeah, but in the dialogue we'll hear it with a positive meaning.
So that's all the words we have for vocabulary preview.
Let's listen to this cool and hip dialogue from the 1990s and we'll come back later and
explain some words.
Hey, Four Eyes.
Not bad.
Just went to the mall and picked up some junk.
Check out my new Adidas.
Those are dope.
You are going to be getting mad props from the gang, man.
Anyways, have you seen Betty lately?
Dude, don't even go there.
That girl started tripping because I went to the movies with Veronica the other day.
I was like, look, you knew how I was before you got with me.
You are such a player, man.
Dude, there's Mad Max.
Let's go say hi.
Mad Max, what's up?
You look like you just saw a ghost.
I got an F in English class.
My life is over.
Dude, you're over it.
You need to lay off the books for a while and have some fun.
Come on, let's bounce.
Where are we going?
My dad is going to go postal when he finds out about this.
I'm going to open the can of whoop ass on you if you don't come with me right now.
Well, it sounds like this guy's got some problems at school, huh?
Yeah, he got an F on his paper, but you always can count on your friends to try and cheer
you up by doing something.
Yeah, but they use some really great phrases and vocabulary words, so why don't we look
at those now in Language Takeaway.
All right, on Language Takeaway we're going to be looking at five words and well, let's
start with the first one.
So the guy was talking about his really cool new shoes, his new Adidas, right?
And his friend said, those are dope.
Dope.
Okay, so it's pretty easy to understand when something is dope.
It's really awesome.
It's cool.
Right, it's great.
So that's dope.
And it's an adjective, right?
So his friend said, those are dope.
And he said, you're going to be getting mad props from the gang.
Okay, so mad props.
Mad props.
We can divide this word in two.
So let's take a look at the first part, mad.
So we understand that mad is angry, right?
Yeah, but it can also mean a lot, right?
Or like amazing.
Or really.
So if I say, you have mad skills.
You're really good at something.
Or you can say, she has a mad amount of shoes.
So he's going to get mad props.
Now props is like respect or compliments.
So his shoes are so cool that he's going to get a lot of respect or a lot of compliments
from his friends.
So they started talking about girls and he mentioned that this girl started tripping.
Tripping.
So to trip.
As you notice, it's trippin'.
It doesn't have the G at the end, which isn't really grammatically correct, but that's kind
of the way it's pronounced.
We would never say the G. Right.
So if somebody is trippin'.
They're getting really upset.
They're getting really angry.
They're causing trouble.
So why don't we listen to a couple of examples of how we could use trippin' for different
Leanne was trippin' because I got dirt on her car.
Even though I apologized for calling her fat, Jeannie was trippin' all night.
He sent me 43 text messages and called me about 20 times.
That guy is trippin' over me.
Okay, so that's pretty clear.
Trippin'.
Now, moving on to our next word.
They wanted to go somewhere and he said, come on, let's bounce.
Let's bounce.
I'm gonna bounce.
Now, bounce basically means let's leave.
But we might be more familiar with this word as in like a ball, right?
A ball bounces off the floor.
So I guess it's kind of the same.
You kind of bounce off the floor and leave that place.
Okay, so for our final word.
Now, this guy who got a bad mark on his paper, he was nervous about what his dad would say,
Because his dad was going to go postal.
He said, my dad is gonna go postal.
To go postal.
Now, if you go postal, it means you go crazy.
Yeah, you really freak out.
You get very angry.
Yeah, like really angry.
This word comes from the 90s because during a time, it was very common in the United States
that postal workers, mailmen, were going a little bit crazy and they started shooting
people and delivering some strange packages.
Well, I guess so people who work in the post office maybe don't have the most exciting
jobs and that drives them a little crazy.
But now they have a term named after them.
So why don't we listen to our dialogue for the second time?
We're going to slow it down a little bit and then we'll come back.
Max, what's up?
I'm going to open a can of whoop-ass on you if you don't come with me right now.
Okay, so I think that was a little easier to understand.
You know, we've got a lot of pretty strange words and phrases, some interesting slang.
Yeah, and I want to take a look at this slang now, so let's get started with Fluency Builder.
Okay, so the guy with the new shoes, he asked his friends, have you seen Betty lately, right?
And his friend replied, don't even go there.
And he said, dude, don't even go there.
Don't even go there.
So what does he mean when he says, don't even go there?
He means, don't talk about it.
I don't want to talk about it.
Don't even touch that subject.
Don't even mention it.
So if somebody wants to talk about a topic that you think is sensitive or you don't want
to talk about, just say, hey, don't even go there.
So Marco, what do you think about the new tax law?
I don't even want to talk about politics.
I think that's a really actually quite helpful phrase to avoid talking about an uncomfortable
So he said, don't even go there.
And he started talking about the girl and she was tripping.
And then he said something interesting.
He said, I was like, look, you knew how I was before you got with me.
Yeah, I really like this phrase.
Now, I want to focus on the first part.
I was like.
Now, you might hear a lot of native English speakers use these three words before they
start telling you what they said.
So it's like saying, I said or I told him.
So this actually is really common, especially with people under the age of 30.
So why don't we hear a few more examples of how it's used now.
This guy caused a car accident.
I was like, you idiot.
You can kill people by driving like that.
And then I was like, I hate you.
And she was all like, I hate you more.
I told the teacher that I didn't finish my homework and he was like, I'll see you after
school.
So if you're telling a story or you're maybe talking to somebody and you want to explain
what you said, you can say, I was like, hey, what are you doing?
And she was like, what?
So you can have an entire dialogue based with I was like, she was like, we were like.
So I was like, it's super, super useful.
So now our next word.
Now, they saw their friend who got the bad marking in school and the guy said, dude,
get over it.
Get over it.
So if somebody tells you to get over it.
Stop worrying about it.
Or stop thinking about it.
So if somebody is sad because maybe his girlfriend broke up with him, you would say, get over
Stop thinking about it.
Let it go.
It's in the past.
And you commonly use this for when somebody is upset about a small thing, something they
shouldn't worry about.
Now, why don't we go on to our final word?
At the end of the dialogue, they said, I'm going to open a can of whoop ass.
So to open a can of whoop ass on somebody.
To open a can of whoop ass.
So again, let's break this down before we explain it.
I think we have to take one step back here.
To whoop someone's ass is to beat them up, right?
To punch them and hurt them.
So to whoop somebody's ass.
So if I open a can of whoop ass, what does that mean?
It means you're going to beat them up.
So it's just a funny, very informal way of saying like, in this can, I'm going to open
it and I'm going to start hitting you or something like that.
Some sort of small man is going to jump out of the can and start hitting you.
But it's never literal.
It's not like you're actually going to beat somebody up.
It's just kind of like a joke.
It's an empty threat.
So some really interesting words and phrases in this dialogue.
I think we should listen to it for the last time and then we'll come back and talk a little
bit more about this great decade.
Well, Marco, in the dialogue, I heard one of the guys say, what's up?
But he said it in a really strange way, didn't he?
He said, what's up?
So what's up with that?
So in the 90s, it was popular instead of saying what's up, you would just kind of double the
S and just say what's up.
And then it became very famous with a TV commercial for a certain beer.
And actually, I remember this commercial during the Super Bowl.
They had this big commercial where everyone was saying what's up in this really strange
way, right?
It's still used today informally between friends.
You'll go ahead, hey, what's up?
Yeah, you'll use it.
Yeah, so that commercial made it actually quite cool and famous to talk like that.
Actually in SpanishPod, they have a show called Que Pasa, which is like the translation of
what's up.
They start each show with like saying, Que Pasa, but it's exactly the same.
So maybe it will become popular in Spanish.
Maybe but I guess only...
Time will tell.
So really cool stuff.
And as we heard typical music from the 90s.
And another interesting thing was the nicknames, Four Eyes, Mad Max, very popular among young
kids.
So remember, if you have any questions about this language or anything else about this
lesson, come to our website at EnglishPod.com.
You can leave all your questions and comments there and we hope to see you guys there.
Because you won't say goodbye until Und card is gone.
Welcome back to another great lesson at EnglishPod.
And my name's Erica.
And today we're going to be building something.
We've got a lesson about construction.
So we're going to be working at a construction site today and we're going to learn a lot
of cool vocabulary with different types of tools.
And we'll also learn some phrases that you can use to talk about work.
So even if you're not really interested in building and making stuff with your hands,
you will learn some language to talk about work in general.
So before we get started with this construction dialogue, let's take a look at vocabulary
Well, Marco, we're going to look at two words now.
And like you said, we're building something in this lesson, right?
We're going to be building a deck.
A deck.
So a deck.
Basically, it's an elevated wooden platform that houses will have like in their backyards
maybe.
So it's a platform that's a little bit higher off the ground behind your house.
So it's very popular for houses to have decks and people will put out a table and chairs
and maybe have lunch out there or something.
Or barbecue or something.
Now, they're building this deck and they need to follow some plans.
Plans.
The plans that we're talking about are construction plans.
It's kind of like the map for the deck.
How you're going to build it.
So we can have floor plans, for example.
So that shows you how the building looks like where the different rooms are.
Like a house, right?
So it's basically the map for a construction.
So two interesting words.
Now why don't we get started and find out what's going to happen as they're building
this deck.
All right, ladies and gentlemen, we've been hired to build a deck on this here house and
turn this boring and drab lawn into a backyard oasis.
There is one catch though.
We've only got one day to finish this.
So I'm going to need everyone to give 110% today.
It's going to be tough, but we've got a great team here and I know that together we can
tackle this project.
That being said, let's get to work.
Now remember, we've been over the plans, but we really need to make sure that everything
is up to code.
The home inspectors here are pretty thorough.
So please make sure you follow the plans exactly.
And remember the carpenter's rule of thumb, measure twice, cut once.
Okay, guys, let's get at it.
Bob, pass me that hammer.
The nails won't go in.
The wood is too hard.
I think I'm going to need the nail gun.
That did it.
Hey, do me a favor and help me cut this two by four, will you?
Pass me that circle saw and grab hold of the end of the board.
Now help me drill some holes in it so we can place the bolts.
I think you should sand the edges.
Look at all these splinters.
Someone could get hurt.
Geez, you've got to take pride in your work.
Pass me the sander and I'll take care of it.
Julia, get over here with that level, measuring tape, and that box of screws.
Oh no, look out below.
All right, so there are a lot of people building the deck.
They have to build it fast.
They've only got one day.
So it's a really big challenge, huh?
Yeah, and I think this is a good lesson in maybe not rushing through important projects,
So we saw some really interesting tools that they were using.
So why don't we look at that first in Language Takeaway.
All right, so we've got some language all about tools.
So why don't we just get started?
So they mentioned a nail gun.
Nail gun.
A nail gun.
So we all know about hammers and nails, right?
So the nails are what you put in the wood.
Now this is an advanced tool, so you don't have to use a hammer.
It's kind of hard to explain, so why don't we listen to the sound this tool makes.
Well, I guess like its name suggests, it's a gun for putting nails in wood.
Yeah, it actually uses compressed air to push nails really fast into the wood.
All right, so they are nailing some pieces of wood together, but they also needed to
cut the wood, and they said, help me cut the two by four.
Yeah, she said, help me cut this two by four.
So a two by four.
This is a very popular type of wood that you use in construction.
A two by four is basically two inches by four inches.
So two inches high and four inches wide.
So it's the most popular and common type of wood that you would use for construction,
a two by four.
You'll hear it all the time.
So they're going to cut the two by four, and C said, pass me the circular saw.
A circular saw.
So a saw, we understand, is something you use to cut wood, but you have many types of
saws.
You have a band saw, you have a circular saw, and this one makes this sound.
So I guess it's called a circular saw because the blade or the cutting part is shaped in
a circle.
Yeah, a circular saw.
So after they cut the piece of wood, one of the guys said, I think you should sand the
edges.
To sand something.
So if you want to sand usually a piece of wood, you want to use paper covered in sand
to make it very smooth.
And so they also mentioned a sander, right?
A sander is basically a machine that has this sandpaper on it and will do the hard work
for you.
So to sand something and a sander.
Now our next word is very related to sanding something because if you don't sand a piece
of wood, it might have splinters.
Splinters.
Splinter.
So like I said, if you cut a piece of wood, there are little pieces of wood that stick
out and you can get hurt.
They can get under your skin.
So tiny, tiny parts of wood.
That's called a splinter.
A splinter.
So why don't we go on to our next tool.
They were talking about a level.
A level.
The level.
So this is a tool that all carpenters have and it's basically a tool that has a little
bit of water in it, right?
And it helps you make sure that everything is straight and flat.
So that's a level.
Every carpenter has it.
And also a measuring tape.
A measuring tape.
Measuring tape.
Now I'm sure if this was a video podcast, we could show you what a measuring tape was
and you'd really understand it, but we'll do our best to describe it for you.
So a measuring tape is like a ruler that rolls up.
It's a very convenient ruler because it can roll up and you can measure something that
is maybe six feet or three meters long and you can extend it.
And when you're done measuring, you can put it back and just put it in your pocket.
Every carpenter has one.
So that's our last tool that we're going to talk about.
So why don't we move on now to Fluency Builder where we've got some phrases that you can
use to talk about work.
So when the contractor started giving them instructions, he said, I need everyone to
give 110% today.
To give 110%.
So when you give 110%, you are basically trying very hard.
You give everything you have to your job.
So it's not only 100%, it's 110, more than what's needed.
So no lunch break.
So as they were talking about the instructions, one of the guys said, the carpenter's rule
of thumb.
A rule of thumb.
So this is an interesting phrase, rule of thumb.
I think we can understand the meaning pretty clearly if we listen to some examples.
The rule of thumb in making a sale is confidence.
Without confidence, you don't make a sale.
The tailor's rule of thumb is twice the circumference of the wrist is the circumference of the neck.
You don't have to take everything I say about marketing as a rule of thumb.
One of the guys noticed a few problems, you know, the splinters, and he said, you've got
to take pride in your work.
He said to take pride in your work.
To take pride in your work.
Why did he say that to her?
What is he trying to tell her?
Well, because she made some mistakes, she didn't do such a good job.
He's wanting her to work harder, work better, work more carefully.
And so she can be proud of her work and say, this is a job well done.
So when you take pride in your work, you work so well and do such a good job that you feel
really happy about it.
Good.
So why don't we listen to this dialogue again for the last time and then we'll come back
and talk about construction.
And remember the carpenters rule of thumb, measure twice, cut once.
Bob pass me that hammer.
Wood is too hard.
Hey, do me a favor and help me cut this two by four, will ya?
One could get hurt.
Jeez, you got to take pride in your work.
Julia, get over here with that level measuring tape and that box of screws.
So an interesting aspect of North American culture is projects like this, right?
Building a deck or maybe adding a room to your house.
And we call this DIY.
Right, DIY, do it yourself.
So it's a very popular summer project, right?
So if you live in a neighborhood in North America, you might see like, you know, the
dad of a family outside building something and all his friends come over and they, you
know, drink beer and build this big thing together.
So it could be a tree house, it could be a deck, it could even maybe be adding another
room to the house.
And you know, it's actually, it's so popular that there are tons of TV shows about how
to build stuff for your house.
And there are a lot of really big stores where you can go and find like all of this equipment
for building stuff for your house.
So basically there are these big stores where you can get anything from paint to wood to
tools, huge amount of material so you can do it yourself.
You can DIY.
So that's all the time we have for today but let us know what you think and tell us if
you are into doing handiwork like this, like maybe building a tree house or building a
deck.
You can come to our website at EnglishPod.com and tell us about it.
As well, you can also leave your questions there.
So we'll see you guys there and until next time.
Welcome to another lesson at EnglishPod.
Katerina My name is Katerin.
So, Marco, what are we talking about today?
Marco Today, we're going to be talking about a popular
topic all over the world and that is smoking.
Katerina Well, not so popular in the States right
now, to be honest.
Marco Well, that's the thing.
In every country in the world now, they are becoming more strict on smoking and where
you can smoke.
So, it's becoming very difficult for smokers nowadays.
Katerina Well, it's a good reason to want to quit.
Marco And that's what we're going to be talking
about today is quitting smoking.
Katerina Well, before we get going, we do have a really
important phrase that we should preview in today's vocabulary preview.
Vocabulary Preview Marco Alright, so on vocabulary preview, we're
going to take a look at this word pack of smokes.
Katerina Pack of smokes.
So, Marco A pack of smokes.
Katerina So, smokes is a word for cigarettes.
It's the same thing, smokes or cigarettes.
Marco Right, but a pack is, you know, like 20 cigarettes.
Katerina It's a box of cigarettes.
You buy them in a pack.
You don't just buy one at a time.
So, again, the phrase is pack of smokes.
Marco Pack of smokes.
So, why don't we listen to our dialogue for the first time and see what's going on with
this smoker.
Smoker Ah, it smells like an ashtray in here.
Smoker Hi, honey.
Why do you have that look on your face?
Smoker What's wrong?
I thought we agreed you were going to quit smoking.
Smoker No.
I said I was going to cut down, which is very different.
You can't just expect me to go cold turkey overnight.
Katerina Look, there are other ways to quit.
You can try the nicotine patch or nicotine chewing gum.
We spend a fortune on cigarettes every month, and now laws are cracking down and not allowing
smoking in any public place.
It's not like you can just light up like before.
Smoker I know, I know.
I really am trying, but I don't have the willpower to just quit.
I can't fight with the urge to reach for my pack of smokes in the morning with coffee
or after lunch.
Please understand.
Katerina Fine.
I want a divorce.
Katerina Sorry, I just smoked a pack of cigarettes.
Smoker You do smoke, don't you?
Katerina Well, we'll talk about that later.
Smoker Alright, so it is a little bit extreme, though.
I mean, he's divorcing her because she won't quit.
Katerina Well, some people really are health conscious
and are afraid of the negative side of smoking, which has a lot of health side effects.
Smoker Yeah.
Well, as he was complaining about all the negative effects and the negative aspects
of smoking, he did mention, both of them mentioned a lot of great words and phrases.
So why don't we take a look at them now in Language Takeaway?
Katerina Language Takeaway.
Well, this first word is a word that's very important for any smoker who goes to a bar
or restaurant and needs to put the ash somewhere, right?
So when you smoke, there's some ash, there's some messy, dirty stuff, and you need an ashtray
to collect it.
Smoker An ashtray.
Katerina So an ashtray is something that's usually
round or square and you put it on a table and it's just very helpful to keep the house
clean or restaurant clean.
So if you're in a restaurant, you say, hey, can I have an ashtray, please?
Smoker So the residue or the stuff that when you're
smoking it comes out the gray, I don't know, like dust, it's called ash.
Katerina Right.
And this is a tray.
But the complaint here is, it smells like an ashtray in here.
That means it smells really, really bad in here.
Smoker Yeah, it smells like cigarettes.
Katerina Yeah.
So that word again is ashtray.
Smoker Ashtray.
Well, and the guy was complaining and he said, well, I thought you were going to quit smoking.
And she said, no, no, I said I was going to cut down.
Katerina She says it's very different from quitting
smoking.
So Marco, maybe we should talk about how cutting down and quitting are different.
Smoker All right.
So if I say I'm going to cut down on smoking, it's just I'm going to smoke less.
Katerina Okay, so let's take an example.
I smoke 10 cigarettes a day, but I want to cut down.
How many should I smoke later?
Maybe?
Smoker Like two or three.
Katerina Two or three.
Smoker Instead of quitting.
So if you quit smoking, that would mean zero.
Katerina Zero cigarettes, no smoking anymore.
Smoker Right.
Katerina All right.
So you can also cut down on carbs like carbohydrates.
So some people who cut down on carbs eat less bread.
They don't eat any pasta.
So these are really good ways of trying to talk about dieting as well as smoking.
And I think we have a couple of examples of other ways we can use this phrase cut down.
So let's listen to them now.
Our company has decided to cut down our workload.
So from now on, we leave at 3pm every Friday.
You should really cut down on the amount of salt you eat.
It's not good for you.
My doctor told me I need to cut down on fatty foods because of my heart condition.
Katerina And when you want to smoke a cigarette, you
have to do something first with some fires.
We call this lighting up.
Smoker To light up.
Katerina So lighting up, it doesn't mean turning on
the light.
It actually means using a lighter or some fire to start your cigarette.
So you want to light up with the lighter matches or some sort of fire.
Katerina The man says, the husband says, it's not
like you can just light up like before.
That means it's not like you can just smoke like before.
So in some cases, light up means to smoke a cigarette.
We're in a movie theater and someone lights a cigarette and I say, oh, you can't light
up in here.
So you can't smoke in here.
Katerina You can't smoke in here.
Smoker It's another way of saying smoking.
And she was explaining, you know, how difficult it is and she's trying to quit.
But she said, I don't have the willpower to just quit.
Katerina Ooh, willpower.
So this is an important word.
Smoker Willpower.
Katerina Willpower.
You think of the main part of this word is will.
That means the desire to do something.
You want to do something.
Smoker So if I have willpower, I have strong willpower.
What am I saying?
Katerina You're saying that you can make a decision and you can follow your decision.
So I decide not to eat cake.
I have very strong willpower, so I never eat cake.
If I don't have strong willpower, maybe I sometimes secretly eat cake in the middle
of the night from my refrigerator.
Smoker So that happens, right?
Sometimes you don't have strong enough willpower.
So you kind of eat a little bit of cake when nobody's watching.
Katerina Exactly.
And you can have willpower about lots of different things.
So this is a great word again to use when you're talking about dieting or smoking or
drinking.
Smoker Any type of maybe temptation.
And well, she said she had this urge to reach for her pack of smokes.
Katerina Ooh, urge is another good one.
It's very similar to willpower, but an urge is kind of like a physical feeling that makes
you want to do something.
Smoker So you have like this strong desire.
Katerina So I have the urge to go swimming today.
I don't know why, but I really want to.
You have an urge.
Interesting word.
Katerina Pregnant women often have these kinds of things
too.
I have the urge to do something.
We also call them cravings.
Smoker Oh, cravings or urge to do something.
So we've taken a look at these five great words, and I think we should listen to our
dialogue again.
We're going to slow it down just a little bit, and then we'll come back and talk some
more.
OK, let's listen.
Katerina Ugh, it smells like an ashtray in here.
Smoker Hi honey.
Katerina What's wrong?
I thought we agreed that you were going to quit smoking.
And we are back.
So we have a great part of our show where we like to talk about some phrases that help
you attain fluency.
That means sounding like a native speaker of English.
And today's phrases are wonderful.
Enrique Alright, so let's take a look at them now
Fluency Builder Enrique So on Fluency Builder today, let's take
a look at two different phrases.
She mentioned something about going cold turkey overnight.
What is that phrase?
Cold turkey?
Katerina Now this is a very strange phrase.
So first of all, why would a turkey be cold?
They have lots of feathers.
And second of all, what does it have to do with cigarettes?
Enrique Right.
So if I say I'm going cold turkey, what is that?
Katerina So just take this as a phrase.
Don't think about the actual words because they won't make sense in this context.
What we're talking about is quitting smoking entirely.
You're not going to cut down.
It means today I'm not going to smoke at all and I'm never going to smoke again.
That means never ever will I smoke another cigarette.
So it's cold turkey.
Enrique So if I go cold turkey, it means I stop doing
something immediately and suddenly and forever.
Katerina Entirely.
Enrique Alright.
Katerina You can use this phrase for different habits, different things that you do like
drinking, for example, or cutting down on sugar.
But generally we just say this about cigarettes.
Enrique So it's mostly related to smoking.
Going cold turkey.
Katerina Some people like to smoke less, like one
cigarette a day or one cigarette a week.
But going cold turkey is supposed to be the hardest.
And well, he was explaining the different negative aspects of smoking.
He said, well, you know, they spend a fortune on cigarettes every month.
And he said, laws are cracking down.
So if the laws are cracking down, what is he trying to say there?
Katerina Well, this is actually a very interesting
point because in America right now, it's very hard to smoke in public places.
So this means that the government is trying to stop people from smoking.
So they say, no more smoking in public places, no more smoking in restaurants, no more smoking
in bars.
And so this means they're cracking down.
They're making it harder to do something.
Enrique So they are becoming more strict.
I think for this phrase, we should listen to a couple of more examples just to make
sure we understand it.
Katerina Example one.
Enrique The police are cracking down on drunk driving
in our city.
Katerina Example two.
Enrique Our school has really started to crack down
on tardiness.
Katerina Example three.
Enrique The president has passed a law that will
crack down possession of illegal substances.
Enrique Alright, so the government is cracking down.
Laws are cracking down.
Katerina Yeah, exactly.
So this is an important one because you read this in the newspapers as well about certain
laws and police action.
Enrique Alright, great.
So I think it's time for us to listen to this dialogue for one last time and then we'll
come back and talk a little bit more about this vice.
Katerina Ah, it smells like an ashtray in here.
Enrique I know, I know.
I really am trying but I don't have the willpower to just quit.
Katerina Fine, I want a divorce.
So do you have a problem with this vice as you call it?
Are you a smoker?
Enrique I'm really not.
I'm the type of person that could maybe smoke socially like if we go out to a bar with drinks,
a social smoker like they call it, right?
Katerina Yeah, I'm jealous.
Enrique But not really.
You're a habitual smoker, right?
Well, I was.
I'm trying to cut down.
So as a habitual smoker, I often smoked every day.
Sometimes I smoked a lot and sometimes I smoked less.
But right now I'm in a period where I'm mostly quit.
Enrique Okay, almost.
Katerina Yeah, well, I haven't smoked in a while.
And when I do, it's just one cigarette.
Enrique Now, it is interesting because like we mentioned,
laws are cracking down on where you can smoke.
But also taxes and cigarettes are becoming much more expensive, right?
Katerina Absolutely, especially where I'm from in Chicago.
It's easy to spend maybe 10 US dollars or 12 US dollars on one pack of cigarettes.
Enrique On a pack of cigarettes.
Imagine that.
So then you have people that can't help smoking one or two packs a day.
So how much is that a month?
It's just an amazing amount of money.
Katerina Thousands of dollars.
Well, and I have to say, though, a lot of my friends who used to smoke in America have
quit.
So this is maybe working.
Enrique The whole thing of making cigarettes more
expensive.
Katerina Yeah, making them much more expensive.
Enrique Now, another interesting thing, and what
I was reading recently, is that you know those warnings that come on cigarette packs that
say smoking kales, smoking causes cancer.
Actually a study has proven that it's not effective, that people don't mind it or even
worry about the cautions on the cigarette packages.
Katerina Well, as a smoker, I could say that, yeah,
you generally, if you're going to smoke a cigarette, don't look at the label that much.
You just, you know, you throw it in your bag and you forget about it.
Enrique But it's actually gotten to the point where
people choose the cigarette pack based on the picture.
So it's like, oh yeah, give me the one with the black lungs or give me that one.
Katerina Oh, God.
Enrique Yeah, it's interesting.
So it's not really working.
I guess we're going to have to find other ways to make people more conscious about this
vice.
Katerina We should.
Enrique But come to our website at EnglishPod.com.
Tell us what you think about this vice, smoking.
Is it good?
Is it bad?
Are you a habitual smoker or just a social smoker?
Katerina Yeah, we also have lots of great stuff, tools
for you on our website and expansion sentences and all that stuff that helps you continue
your studies outside of, well, the car or your house.
Let us know what you think.
Enrique All right, we'll see you there.
Katerina Bye.
And today we're going to have a fun, funny lesson.
So I think this lesson's going to be a little bit different than most of our lessons, right?
Today we're going to be looking at jokes, which is a very important part of English
speaking culture.
So we're actually, we're going to teach you a few pretty hilarious jokes, but we're also
going to teach you some language related to jokes, funny things, and that sort of stuff.
So in order for us to understand a little bit better the jokes that we're going to be
looking at, why don't we take a look at vocabulary preview.
Two of these words you'll hear in the dialogue, but one you won't, but you still need to know
this word so you can understand the jokes.
So the word that we're talking about is not really a word.
It's a sound.
Moo.
So moo is the sound that cows make.
M-O-O.
They go moo.
Very nice, Marco.
I could do a good cow.
So we all know now that that's what cows say.
So it's going to be important for the joke.
You'll see why.
Now another word that you need to understand is a dam.
So a dam.
A dam.
A dam is like a big wall, right?
Well, it's a wall in water that stops the river from flowing.
So usually you build dams in rivers and then the water can pass or not.
It's something that you use to generate electricity, right?
But there's another word that sounds exactly the same way, but it's just spelled a little
differently.
And we might hear someone say, oh, damn.
And that's an interjection, which basically means...
That's terrible.
Damn.
We're late for the movies.
We're late for the movie.
So it's an interesting interjection and we'll also see it in one of our jokes.
And now let's move on to our last word.
Nostrils.
So a nostril or your nostrils.
The two holes in your nose.
You breathe through your nostrils.
So now that we've taken a look at these three words, why don't we listen to our comedian
for the first time and then we'll come back and talk a little bit more.
Hello everyone and welcome to Open Mic Night.
You're in for a real treat as we've got a lot of great comics here with us tonight.
First up, we have a very funny man coming straight from the state of Montana, Robert
Hicks.
Thank you everyone.
Well, what a lovely crowd.
You know, there's nothing I love better than stand up comedy.
You know, I've been working on my routine for months now and I've got some real zingers
for you tonight.
Let's start out with some short jokes.
How about that?
Where do you find a one-legged dog?
Where you left it?
Get it?
Anyways, what do you call a sheep with no legs?
A cloud.
Tough crowd.
Now, you're going to love this joke.
It's hilarious.
What do cows do for entertainment?
They rent movies.
Movies.
Okay, okay, okay.
We've got a few hecklers in the audience, but this one is good.
What does a fish say when it runs into a wall?
Damn!
Last one.
Why do gorillas have big nostrils?
Because they got big fingers.
Thanks, everyone.
That was my time.
Okay, so some pretty hilarious jokes, huh?
I don't think the crowd really enjoyed them all that much.
Okay, well, maybe I'm just a fan of really terrible jokes.
Well, they were pretty funny, but I guess the crowd just didn't appreciate his sense
of humor.
They did use quite a lot of really interesting language.
On Language Takeaway, we're going to be looking at six words today, so let's get started.
The announcer welcomed everyone and said that it's open mic night.
Open mic night.
So, an open mic night.
Okay, well, we know mic is short for microphone, right?
Now, an open mic night is a chance where anyone can come up and talk into the microphone.
So you can come up and sing or you can tell jokes, you can do anything, basically.
Alright, open mic night.
So it's not for professionals, but for people who maybe want to be professionals.
Right, amateurs.
So it was open mic night and he said they had a lot of great comics there.
So comics.
A comic.
So basically, a comic is a person that makes a living by making people laugh.
Yeah, someone who stands up on stage and tells jokes.
So, a clown is kind of like a comic?
No, they're different.
They're different, right?
A comic doesn't wear a red nose and a crazy...
A costume.
Alright, yeah, because I hate clowns.
We do know that about you.
Alright, so a comic.
And well, what comics do is they perform stand-up comedy.
Stand-up comedy.
Okay, so stand-up comedy is really exactly what its name suggests, right?
Right, you stand up in front of an audience and you tell jokes or you make them laugh.
Yeah, tell funny stories.
It's a very popular form of entertainment in the United States and the UK.
And I think we'll talk a little bit more about that at the end of the lesson, but why don't
we move on to our next word, which is routine.
A routine.
So the guy says, I've been working on my routine.
So what does he mean by his routine?
Well, I guess a routine is like a series or a collection of jokes or maybe movements that
you use in a performance.
Alright, a routine.
So you can talk about a dance routine.
Or in this case, a comedy routine.
So the series of jokes he's going to tell.
That's right, that he practices again and again and again.
Alright, and in his routine, he said he's got a lot of zingers.
Zingers.
A zinger.
So what's a zinger?
Basically, a zinger is like a strong, maybe a little bit rude joke.
Yeah, but like a kind of a one-line joke, right?
And the people that were in the crowd and they were booing him, they were like, boo,
those we call hecklers.
And that's our last word, a heckler.
A heckler.
Hecklers.
So, let's listen to some hecklers in action.
Alright well, I think that's pretty clear.
Those are definitely hecklers.
Right, they're very annoying.
So now that we've finished looking at all the words that are related to comedy and performances,
let's take a look at the jokes now in Fluency Builder.
Okay, well we're not really focusing on new phrases for you here, but we thought it would
be helpful to talk a little bit about the jokes to help you understand them, right?
Because they are, well, I think pretty funny.
Yeah, they're pretty funny, but maybe sometimes they're kind of hard to understand.
So why don't we start with the first joke?
So you said, where do you find a one-legged dog?
So what's a one-legged dog?
Basically, it's a dog that has one leg.
Ah, okay, and the pronunciation here is important, right?
One-legged.
So you can say a one-legged dog, a two-legged dog, or a three-legged dog.
Six-legged dog?
A six-legged spider.
Maybe he lost two legs in a war.
Okay, so the dog obviously didn't go anywhere, and so that's why you find it where you left
So that's why it's kind of funny.
All right, so then he said, what do you call a sheep with no legs?
A cloud, basically, because sheep are fluffy and they're white, so if you take away their
legs, they look like a little cloud.
Boo!
All right, let's look at the next one.
He asked, what do cows do for entertainment?
And then the answer was, they rent movies.
So it's kind of funny because he's relating this word movies with the sound that cows
make, which is moo.
So there are a million jokes in English following the same pattern, right?
So I'm sure you can find a lot more of them and you can share them with us.
Now my personal favorite joke is, the guy says, what does a fish say when it runs into
a wall?
So to run into a wall, basically, to crash against the wall.
So what does the fish say?
So why is this funny?
Why does he say damn?
Well, because, I mean, if you're a person and you run into a wall, damn, like, you know,
it's like, oh no.
But a fish is swimming under the water and like we saw, a dam is actually like a wall
in the water.
So he's saying like, a wall.
So I like that one.
The last one was pretty good.
Okay, so the big holes in their nose.
And basically, it's because they have big fingers.
So they can put their fingers in the nose?
If he didn't have big nostrils, he wouldn't be able to pick his nose.
Maybe he'd have to use a stick.
Yeah, but that wouldn't be convenient.
See?
So that's why those jokes are funny.
They're very short jokes.
Of course, some of them are not actually really funny, but it's just a little bit of a taste
of short American jokes.
Okay, well, I think we need to hear them one more time in context so you can all know how
funny or maybe not so funny they are.
Thank you, everyone.
You know, there's nothing I love better than stand-up comedy.
Where you left it.
All right, now you're going to love this joke.
Thanks everyone, that was my time.
Now if you have any good jokes of your own, why don't you come to our website and tell
us about them.
Right, come to EnglishPod.com, share with us any jokes.
Of course, they have to be clean.
Don't come with any...
No, yeah, no swears.
No swearing in the jokes.
All right, so we'll see you guys there and until next time.
And my name is Kathryn.
And today we've got a great show for you.
We're talking all about music.
It's a great topic.
I think everyone loves music and well, there's so much type of music out there.
So that's what we're going to be talking about today.
So there's a little bit for everyone here.
Even if you hate rock music, there might be something in it that you're going to be a
fan of.
So before we get started on the dialogue, we have a couple of words that we want to
So let's take a look at them now in Vocabulary Preview.
So this word sounds a bit funny.
It looks like it should be pronounced differently.
We say genre.
Genre.
Or genre.
It kind of sounds French.
I think it comes from French.
It's a GE word.
So genre.
It's a soft, soft sound.
And what's a genre?
Well, a genre is like a category.
So you could say genre of book or genre of music.
Oh, movies also have genres, right?
Yeah, they do.
Like horror movie is a genre.
Or action or suspense, etc.
So we're going to be looking at music genres on this occasion.
And some of these genre names actually have abbreviations.
They're long words that we say in short forms.
And this kind of abbreviation is called an acronym.
So that's another word that we're looking at, acronym.
So an acronym is a short version of a long word.
Yeah, usually it's just letters.
Like USA is a very good acronym.
It means United States of America.
So there are some acronyms as well in music.
So that's what we're going to be looking at.
And many other things.
I guess like DNA is an acronym.
Yeah, DNA is an acronym.
UN is an acronym.
So we're going to be looking at different genres of music.
We're going to listen to a game show where people have to name the song and the genre.
Welcome back music lovers to I Love That Song, the game show where we test your musical knowledge
to the extreme.
Team A, guess this tune.
Carrying Your Love With Me by George Strait.
The genre is country music.
100 points to Team A. Now for our next cut.
Thong Song by Sisqó.
I believe the genre is R&B.
100 big points for Team B. For all of our viewers, the acronym R&B stands for rhythm
and blues.
On that note, DJ, play our next song.
Superstar by The Carpenters.
And the genre?
Adult Contemporary.
That's right, 100 points.
That sound means it's double or nothing.
The songs are more difficult and the points are doubled.
Let's hear our next song.
Too Easy.
That song is Kingslayer by the Finnish power metal group Nightwish.
You are correct.
Very impressive, Team A. And it seems we have a tie.
It's time now for the tiebreaker round.
Each team will be played three songs and they must tell us the genre of each song in less
than five seconds.
Team A, are you ready?
Ready.
Let's hear it.
Hip hop, classical and gothic metal.
Team B, the pressure is on.
If you get all of them right, we will move on to sudden death.
If you miss one, you lose.
DJ, let's hear it.
Rap, disco and...
Fun show, Marco.
I kind of think I'd be good at this kind of game.
I might win big.
Well, there were a lot of different types of genres in there and a lot of different
music, I don't know, maybe not very popular.
Like for example, country music.
I don't know if many people outside of the United States actually know about this.
Well, there might be different kinds of country music, but you know, in America, one of the
most famous country music musicians is Garth Brooks.
And even if I didn't like his music, I grew up hearing it everywhere.
But you don't like it?
Um, you know, it's one of those things that I like some kinds of country music, but it's
a huge genre.
That means there's lots of different kinds of music within country.
So let's take a look at more of these genres and now in Language Takeaway.
So we talked about country music.
Now this is mostly in the United States, right?
In the South, especially because there's a long tradition of country music in the southern
So it's very characteristic to have guitars and...
A little bit of twang, maybe.
Twang?
What is twang?
It's a way of saying a word.
So I could say, I'm from Texas, or I could say, I'm from Texas.
That's twang.
So kind of like an accent, a southern accent.
So Garth Brooks has a famous twang, I got friends in Laos.
You know, that's a very famous song of his where he's twangy.
Very southern.
So we have country music and then we saw another genre, which is R&B.
This is a little bit more up my alley.
That means this is more of an interest of mine.
And R&B is an acronym for?
Rhythm and blues.
So the R&B that we know now, what would be some examples of those artists?
Well, a really famous artist is John Legend, who's been touring the world with his new
album and that kind of music is R&B.
So we're talking about a kind of music that mixes jazz traditions with rhythm.
So that means drums and bass.
That's rhythm.
So you have rhythm and blues, like the name says.
R&B, very popular nowadays.
And then we moved on to something heavier, something more like rock style, which is metal.
Metal.
I'm not really sure why they call it metal, but metal is a very, very popular kind of
music.
So it divides into different categories, right?
In this song, we saw that it was power metal.
But you also have like heavy metal.
Well, because metal is such a broad category, it's a big category.
It's hard to say what certain groups are unless you're really a fan and you follow, but there
are many different kinds of metal out there.
And so if you're interested, I would check it out on Wikipedia.
Or let us know if you know what's the difference between power metal and gothic metal and electronic
metal.
So there are so many different types now.
But moving on to our next genre, we also saw something that everyone probably knows nowadays
and that's hip hop.
Hip hop is a great, great and very interesting kind of music.
It grew out of a lot of people who are listening to jazz in the late 80s, especially in New
York, I think, Brooklyn.
And it's kind of interesting in the sense that you take these old records, these old
vinyls, and you slow everything down.
So you change the speed.
So a normal song goes from dum, dum, dum, dum to dum, dum, dum, dum.
And then you had like some bass in there.
And some lyrics and you have yourself something like hip hop.
So a very famous hip hop artist nowadays would be 50 Cent.
Or for example, also Nelly, right?
Another famous hip hop artist.
So we have hip hop and well, it's kind of similar.
Very similar to rap almost.
But it's different in that the way the process for making this kind of music is quite different.
Rap tends to be very lyric heavy, whereas hip hop is very beat heavy, I think.
So interesting.
Now we've seen a lot of these different genres, but of course, there's so many more that we
can't really look at all of them in one single podcast.
That's what our website's for.
You can put your favorite music genres up on our website and practice your English.
So, well, why don't we listen to this dialogue for the second time?
Let's slow it down just a little bit, and then we'll come back and look at some more
Welcome back, music lovers, to I Love That Song, the game show where we test your musical
knowledge to the extreme.
Song Song by Sisqó.
100 big points for Team B.
For all of our viewers, the acronym R&B stands for rhythm and blues.
100 points.
Too easy.
Each team will be played three songs, and they must tell us the genre of each song in
less than five seconds.
Hip-hop, classical, and gothic metal.
Rap, disco, and...
So, it isn't a true EnglishPod lesson if we don't give you a couple of phrases and words
to make you sound more fluent, so that's the purpose of this next portion of our show.
Okay, so the phrases that we're going to look at now on Fluency Builder are the ones that
we saw in the dialogue, but we can use, of course, outside of music or outside of a game
show.
And there was an interesting one that he mentioned when he said, double or nothing.
Hmm, double or nothing.
It's double or nothing.
Well, this is an interesting phrase because it, I think, comes from gambling and betting.
Yeah, so it's a way for us to say, well, you could double your money, but if you have
a bad answer, if you lose this round, you don't get anything.
So I guess, yeah, you do see a lot of people say, maybe they're betting or they're playing
a game, that person loses and says, okay, let's go double or nothing.
So give me one more shot to win back my money.
So if I say, okay, Marco, you need to tell me the capital of Brazil, you have $50.
If you get the answer right, you get $100.
But if you get the answer wrong, you get zero.
That's double or nothing.
All right, interesting phrase.
What else do we have?
We've got a great one here called tiebreaker.
So a tiebreaker.
Yeah, a tiebreaker, it's a thing.
And sometimes in games, some people have the same score.
They have the same amount of points.
So they're tied.
They're tied.
A tie means you have the same number.
And if you want to win, you need one winner.
You have to have a tiebreaker to decide.
So it could be a question or like we saw here, a tiebreaker round.
So to decide on a winner.
And this is all or nothing because if you get the answer right, you win.
If you don't, you lose.
It doesn't matter if you were tied before.
A tiebreaker.
And we have one more phrase and this one is really interesting.
The pressure is on.
So if I say the pressure is on.
It almost sounds painful.
Yeah, it does.
Well, is it, does it mean that I am being pressured or what is this?
Well, it's a good question.
The important thing to look at here is the word on because pressure has this kind of
companion word to put pressure on something or to put pressure on someone.
And so it's the way we say it in English and it means that you're going to really take
things seriously from this point on.
So for example, the Chicago Bulls were at the peak, the height of their fame and they
were just a wonderful team.
And oftentimes you'd hear the announcers say, there's five seconds left on the clock.
The pressure is on Michael Jordan to win the game.
So the opportunity for the team to win all depended on Michael Jordan.
So the pressure, all of this stuff is on him, his shoulders.
So he has to score the point to win the game.
This is a very interesting phrase.
Why don't we take a look at some other examples of how we could use the pressure is on.
Carl is really stressed out lately.
The pressure of the entire project is on him since his promotion.
The pressure is on the president to guide his country out of the recession.
The pressure is on our entire team to successfully come up with a new product for the Asian market
within a month.
Great examples.
I think it's pretty clear now, right?
And to make sure that we understood the whole dialogue, I think we should take another listen
to it at a normal speed.
And when we come back, we'll be talking a little bit more about one of my favorite topics,
Carrying your love with me by George Strait.
Song sung by Cisco.
Superstar by the Carpenters.
Adult contemporary.
Uh-oh, that sound means it's double or nothing.
All right, so we have music, different music genres.
Which one are you mostly into?
That's a hard question.
I have very different interests.
I like classical music.
I also like jazz, but I also like rock and I also like R&B.
So it really depends.
I guess it depends on your mood.
Now, they say that music does really influence people's moods.
They did a study, some doctors in America did a study to see if heart patients, people
who have heart problems, could be positively affected by music.
And the results said that yes, it can be helpful.
So maybe it helps them relax or...
Yeah, it says if you're listening to the radio and a song that you like comes on the radio,
you hear the song, your heart pumps more oxygen to your brain.
So it means it actually makes you happier.
What about when they play music for unborn babies?
Like they'll put little headphones on a mother's belly and they'll play like classical music
because supposedly it'll make the baby smarter.
Like baby Mozart or something.
What do you think about that?
I think talking to kids and giving them books when they're little probably helps a little
bit more, but I'm not a doctor so that I can't say.
Well, many people do argue now that they don't make music like they used to.
I guess they say that music that was made before, the lyrics were more profound, they
were real musicians, they were composers and they wrote lyrics.
But now you just get a lot of temporary music that doesn't really transcend into the future.
I totally disagree.
I think the last 10 years have seen a really amazing growth in the music industry because
more people are communicating.
The internet allows us to hear all sorts of things from all over the world and so we have
great musicians who can listen to music from Mali and they can listen to music from India
and they have all these different influences that were not there before.
And so I think it's the opposite.
I think a lot of new pathways in music have opened up because of the technology evolution.
Wow, interesting.
Well, what do you guys think?
Listeners, come to our website EnglishPod.com, leave your questions and comments and tell
us what you think.
Do you think maybe music has become better in the last decade or do you think maybe it's
not so good?
Well, you do have bad artists, right?
You always have bad artists.
The bad ones, they fade into history.
You never hear from them again.
So come and let us know and also if you have any questions or doubts, you can leave them
on the site as well.
Yeah, we're happy to answer any questions you've got.
So let us know what you're thinking.
Bye everyone.
And today Marco and I get to share with you the thrilling conclusion to the, well, very
popular I must say, series.
I'm sorry, I love you.
Today is the finale, the final episode, episode 10.
This is where it all ends.
So what do you think is going to happen?
If I guess, you're just going to get angry at me because I actually know how it ends.
But let's just say I hope that it ends well for our protagonists.
There was a lot of controversy around it because, you know, I wanted to know if people wanted
a happy ending, a sad ending, unexpected.
I guess everyone wants a happy ending, right?
So we're going to, well, keep our fingers crossed for Steven and Veronica and check
out this dialogue one time.
Steven, good to see you, brother.
How was your trip?
It was fine.
I've been better, but it's great to be home.
I've missed you all.
How's mom?
She's great.
All she ever does is talk about you, her little boy that went to the United States.
You're her pride and joy.
You know that, right?
I can't wait to see her.
You?
What's new with you?
Well, Nisha and I are expecting.
You'll have another nephew or niece soon.
Congrats.
You two are great together, you know?
You have such a beautiful family.
I hope that one day I can have that.
Of course, man.
I mean, everything was set here for you to marry Shalini.
You know, she's still pining after you.
I don't think she'll ever get over you.
I hardly knew her.
How could she be in love with me?
I couldn't go through with it, even though she's a great woman.
No, I left my heart in the United States.
I just hope Veronica is happy.
You're home now.
Everyone here thinks so highly of you.
There'll be girls throwing themselves at you.
You can marry anyone you want.
I don't want to marry anyone.
I want to marry her.
Don't you understand?
You are incorrigible.
Steven!
My baby!
I miss you so much!
Hey, Mom.
Great to see you.
You look so thin!
Didn't those Americans feed you?
Come, come.
Let's have some Thai.
By the way, there is a girl here waiting for you.
Hi, Steven.
Veronica, how did you get here?
How do you know where I live?
I waited for you at the airport, but you never showed.
I also have some little secrets that I haven't told you about, but we can discuss that later.
I realized that I was just scared.
Scared of how much I love you and of the commitment that marriage requires.
I'm here now.
Now there's something I want to ask you.
Steven, will you marry me?
I now declare you husband and wife.
You may kiss the bride.
All right, so they got married.
You got married.
I got married.
Wow, I should have called my mom.
Not only did you get married, but you got married Bollywood style with music and everything
nice.
Those weddings are like four days long.
I hope you enjoyed the finale of this story.
I was glad to see that it was a happy ending.
I have to say if it had been a sad ending, I would have been a little bit disappointed
because well, Veronica and I...
You get along.
We get along.
So apart from this happy ending and this happy finale that we had, we did look at a lot of
great words and phrases.
So why don't we start now with language takeaway?
So the first couple of phrases I want to talk about here have to do with maybe catching
up and talking about family or gossip because we're talking to Stephen's Indian family who
hasn't seen for a long, long time.
The first thing he's talking to his brother about his brother and his wife.
So Gulam and Nisha are expecting, we find out.
Right, they're expecting.
So if Gulam and Nisha are expecting, what does that mean exactly?
They're expecting a letter.
Expecting a baby maybe?
Aha, yeah.
So here we go.
So I'm expecting is a very common English way of saying I'm going to have a baby.
I'm pregnant.
So don't get this confused.
If somebody says, oh, well, I'm expecting, you don't have to say expecting what?
When it's only expecting, when it's not a thing afterwards, I'm expecting means I'm
pregnant or she's expecting.
She's going to have a baby.
So they are expecting a baby or they're expecting.
And they were talking about, well, Stephen, he was supposed to get married in India and
his brother said a very interesting, where he said, well, these girls are still, this
girl is still pining over you.
So the Shalini, some girl that Stephen used to know when he was living in India, she's
pining after you.
Well, pine has many different meanings in English.
But in this sense, we're talking about having a crush on or being in love with.
And also it's a way of saying that you are, that you desire, you yearn for this person
very, very much.
But that you don't have them.
You don't have them.
You want them.
So you're pining over this person.
Now, can you pine over an object?
Usually it's maybe related to love or to a person, right?
So she, she stands by the door every day waiting the letter that doesn't come.
She's pining away for her dear love, Thomas or whatever.
And you know what I read recently is that people can get addicted to pining.
So maybe you can pine after a person not because you miss them or you want to, but you kind
of grow accustomed to it and you become addicted to this pain that's kind of pleasurable.
There is a way to describe this.
It's called Petrarchan love.
Well, it's this kind of traditional idea in poetry where you have a love that's never
consummated, that's never filled.
You never get to be with the person that you love, that you desire.
And so it's a way, yeah, it's a way of distinguishing the two different kinds of love.
Some where you're with the person and the other where you always want them, but you
can never have them.
Well, hopefully none of our listeners are pining over anyone or, or get to experience
that, huh?
But if you do pine away or you pine after someone, you have to hope that one day you'll
get over that person.
Yeah, you have to get over it.
And that's what his brother says, hey, get over it.
So what does it mean when you're supposed to get over someone?
Okay, this is a good question because, you know, we're talking here not about actually
getting up on top of a fence or a wall.
We're talking about emotions.
So getting over someone, so I have to get over him means that I have to stop feeling
so sad about what, what happened, right?
Because usually you say this when someone's sad or angry.
And also it kind of means that you have to forget or let that person go, you know, like
We're going to move on here to the last word in today's language takeaway, which is incorrigible.
Okay, an incorrigible person.
Alright, incorrigible.
What could this mean?
Well, let's look at the sentence where we find it.
Gulam says this to Stephen.
So it's an adjective and basically it means that you have no correction of some sort.
Well, there's an argument between Stephen and Gulam.
So they're brothers.
And Stephen says, I don't want to get married.
I don't want to marry her.
He's complaining and his brother says, you are incorrigible.
You just won't stop.
So someone's feelings, their emotions, their ideas about something, they just can't be
changed or altered.
They're fixed.
You know, this guy, he's like, I'm not going to get married.
And his brother says, you're incorrigible.
I just can't change your mind.
It's kind of like being stubborn.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
And we hear this phrase a lot together.
So you're incorrigible.
So this is often just kind of a, it's not an insult, but it's a way for us to kind of
be sarcastic or to make fun of someone.
You're incorrigible, Marco.
Usually you say it when you're loud, you know, you're being nice.
Okay, cool.
So five great words in language takeaway today.
And well, before we move on and listen to the dialogue again, why don't we take a look
at Fluency Builder?
So this phrase is something that parents often use and grandparents as well, because obviously
parents and grandparents, they're very proud of their children, their grandchildren.
So they describe something as being their pride and joy.
My pride and joy.
So it's usually a person that's your pride and joy.
It could be a thing too.
It could be a thing.
His Porsche Boxster is his pride and joy.
He goes out every morning and he washes it.
He changes the oil, he checks the gas, checks the tires.
So it's his pride and joy.
It's his most valued possession.
So it always goes together, right?
Pride and joy.
Just think of it as a phrase, pride and joy.
So I'm my mother's pride and joy.
I think you are.
So you don't know my mom.
So somebody's pride and joy.
So now another phrase that we took a look at, and it's a way of making conversation,
especially with a person that you haven't seen in a while.
He said, Hey, what's new with you?
So this might sound a little strange because normally we say, how have you been?
It's been a long time.
But this is like, you know, it's a fluency builder phrase.
So it's very colloquial, it's very spoken language.
This you hear often between friends or family members.
Hey, Marco, what's new with you?
So how do you, I would answer this by saying, oh, well, not much.
Or I just bought a new house.
So basically you're asking for news from a person.
I haven't seen you in a long time.
You look, you look happy and healthy.
So what's new with you?
Oh, I got married.
I got a new car.
These things that you can say, these are changes in my life.
And usually after somebody asks you, what's new with you?
You say something and then you usually would follow up and ask that person as well, right?
What's new and what's new with you?
So, you know, I got a new house, got a new job.
Or what about you?
So it's a nice, very relaxed, informal way of asking someone for news in their life.
What else?
Now, he was supposed to get married, right?
So this is news.
He was supposed to get married.
He didn't get married.
His brother, his mother, they all want to know what's going on.
And we find out that wedding, that girl, he just couldn't go through with it.
So I can't, I couldn't go through with it.
This past tense.
So he's saying, before I came to India with this girl, I couldn't go through with it.
So present would be, I can't go through with it.
And going through with what here?
We've got it, this kind of magical, strange word, it.
What could this be?
So basically, what he's saying is that he couldn't complete or maybe finish something
that he started.
So in this case, we're talking about a relationship.
Or marriage.
Yeah, a relationship.
So maybe we loved each other, but I couldn't go through with it.
I couldn't go to the finish line.
I couldn't get married.
You see that a lot when maybe in movies, two people are supposed to get married.
They're at the altar, and all of a sudden the bride says, I can't, or she goes away
crying.
I can't go through with this.
So because she loves somebody else, so can't go through with it.
So really good phrase.
I can't go through with it.
He couldn't go through with it.
And we find out that, well, not such a bad thing.
Steven, he's very popular in India.
The girls love him.
We've got a great phrase for describing having lots of girls who love you.
He says there will be girls throwing themselves at you.
Literally?
Like, ow, that might hurt.
I can't imagine that.
Like, just somebody throwing themselves at you?
No, it's not literal.
It's basically saying girls are very interested in you.
Girls are so interested in you that they'll be chasing you almost.
So many, many girls, they will follow you.
They'll want to be in a relationship with you.
They like you.
So he's saying, listen, there are other girls.
Girls here, they love you.
And it doesn't only work with girls, right?
I can say there'll be boys throwing themselves at you.
So this is something we say about both genders, boys and girls.
You could say, oh, God, all the boys were throwing themselves at her.
I'm so jealous.
But it's only basically in a loving way, right?
It can't be anything else.
Like somebody's chasing you for other reasons.
No, this is saying that they have crushes, they have feelings, they want to be romantic.
It's not a bad thing, but sometimes it's too much attention, so it can be kind of negative.
Well, interesting phrases on Fluency Builder today.
I think it's time for us to listen to this dialogue for one last time.
Get up and dance.
Stephen, good to see you, brother.
All she ever does is talk about you, her little boy that went to United States.
You know, she's still finding after you.
I couldn't go through with it even though she's a great woman.
They'll be girls throwing themselves at you.
Steven, my baby, how are you?
I miss you so much.
Hey, mom.
You look so thin.
I realized that I was just scared, scared of how much I love you and of the commitment
that marriage requires.
Now, there's something I want to ask you.
I'm sorry, I don't think I can.
I don't know how to say it.
Alright, so it's over.
Sad, sad but sweet.
Sad but sweet, huh?
Well, we went from them meeting casually by a bike accident.
Yeah, we had nice music.
Then it turned out that she was angry, they kind of broke up, they got back together.
He was being strained with all of these secret trips to save people.
It was interesting.
We went a lot of different ways.
She was pregnant, she wasn't really pregnant.
The doctor was stalking her.
She had a stalker.
He's in the secret service.
It was an interesting ride.
Well, now we need to think of a new drama, a new soap opera or novel.
So, we need your input.
Maybe we should open it up.
What did you like?
What didn't you like?
And what kind of genre are you interested in?
Because you know, there's tons of different kinds of stories we could tell.
Right, maybe we can do something scary like a thriller or horror.
I'm a big fan of sci-fi.
Or sci-fi, maybe we can do something sci-fi.
Maybe we can do a comedy, something maybe like Friends, I don't know.
That'd be kind of cute.
Yeah, it could be.
All right, so listeners, why don't you give us your input?
We need your feedback.
Tell us what series you would like next, what type of series.
Maybe, like we said, drama, sci-fi, action, what would you like?
And please get in touch with us, leave comments and questions at our website, englishpod.com.
We like to check those and answer you.
So, yeah, get in touch with us and have a great day.
All right, we'll see you guys there.
And today we're bringing you part two of the presidential farewell speech of President
Eisenhower.
So, we saw in a previous lesson the beginning of this speech.
Now we're going to look towards the end of the speech.
Now, we must tell you as well that we did change the speech a little bit, right?
We changed it a little bit to make it a little bit more comprehensible and also we did shorten
We didn't make it this short.
We did take out a lot of stuff.
So, again, Marco, why are we looking at this speech?
What are we learning from it?
Well, in this last part of the presidential farewell speech, there are a lot of great
words that are more difficult and very poetic.
So you can use them in different formal circumstances or just to sound a little bit more well-spoken.
And we also, again, are going to look at some really quite difficult and challenging structures
that we hope you can use maybe when you're giving a formal talk or even in your writing
if you want to sound quite professional.
So, why don't we listen to the dialogue for the first time?
Let's listen how President Eisenhower says goodbye and then we'll come back and look
at the words.
We now stand ten years past the midpoint of a century that has witnessed four major wars
among great nations.
Three of these involved our own country.
Despite the carnage of these conflicts, America is today the strongest, the most influential,
and the most productive nation in the world.
We are understandably proud of this preeminence, yet we realize that America's leadership and
prestige depend not merely upon our unmatched material progress, riches, and military strength,
but on how we use our power in the interests of world peace and human betterment.
Throughout America's adventure in free government, such basic purposes have been to keep the
peace, to foster progress and human achievement, and to enhance liberty, dignity, and integrity
among peoples and among nations.
We pray that peoples of all faiths, all races, all nations may have their great human needs
satisfied, that those now denied opportunity shall come to enjoy it to the full, that all
who yearn for freedom may experience its spiritual blessings, that those who have freedom will
understand also its heavy responsibilities, that all who are insensitive to the needs
of others will learn charity, that the scourges of poverty, disease, and ignorance will be
made to disappear from the earth, and that in the goodness of time, all peoples will
come to live together in a peace guaranteed by the binding force of mutual respect and
love.
Now, on Friday noon, I am to become a private citizen.
I am proud to do so.
I look forward to it.
Thank you and good night.
Well, that certainly was a very moving speech, hey?
Very moving and to a certain point, a little bit religious, huh?
Yeah, I think we'll talk a little bit about that a little bit later, but let's concentrate
on the language now.
So we'll go to Language Takeaway.
All right, on Language Takeaway today, we'll start with our first word and it's preeminence.
All right, we are understandably proud of this preeminence.
A preeminence.
So preeminence, what is this?
Basically, it's the state of being the leader of something.
Okay, so in this case, America was the preeminent nation.
Right, so they were coming up, they were very prosperous, so they had a preeminence in the
world.
All right, so I think we can see here, you can use this as an adjective, a preeminent
nation, or as a noun, an uncountable noun, the preeminence of our state.
Since we can use this word as a noun and an adjective, why don't we listen to some more
examples so we can get a better understanding of it?
Now, please welcome Dr. Frank Hicks, the world's most preeminent expert on nuclear biology.
He's been a leader in his field for 25 years and his preeminence has never been questioned.
Carol Dixon is one of the most preeminent experts in green technology.
All right, well, Eisenhower was talking about all of the things that the American people
had done since they became a free nation, and one of these things was to foster progress
in human achievement.
Foster progress in human achievement.
Well, I like this verb a lot, to foster something.
So if I say to foster progress or to foster something, what am I saying?
To help something grow and develop.
To take care of it, to nurse it.
And we commonly hear this word associated with children, right?
A foster child.
So what's that?
If you have a foster child, you are basically taking care of a child because the parents
can't look after them.
It's not like adopting because you don't actually, it's not actually legal.
It's just that you're helping somebody out by raising this child.
So we can see the connection there, a foster child to foster something.
But you know, this is really a great word and I think it would help to give a couple
of examples of how we could use it.
So for example, I can say, our company is looking to foster better creativity in the
workplace.
Or we could say, here at Praxis Language, we foster the development of your English.
So the word foster.
Now moving on, in his speech, he was talking about nations and faiths and different types
of groups and he said, all who yearn for freedom.
All who yearn for freedom.
To yearn.
So to yearn for something.
Now if I yearn for freedom or I yearn for something, it's basically that I really want
it in my heart.
Yeah, you really wish for it in a way that's almost, almost painful.
You know, you want it so badly.
Now you wouldn't say like, I'm yearning for ice cream, would you?
No, unless you were locked up in prison and hadn't had ice cream for 55 years.
So it's usually related to something that's very difficult to get or something like freedom
or yearning for.
That's really important.
And now for our last word, President Eisenhower was talking about charity.
He was talking about freedom and he mentioned the scourges of poverty.
So scourges.
The scourges of poverty.
Scourges is a really difficult but interesting word.
So why don't we hear a few more examples to help us understand it.
Malaria is a disease that continues to be a scourge to the developing world.
One day we hope to eliminate the scourge of cancer.
NATO promises to wipe out the scourge of terrorism.
So as we can see, the scourges of something basically is the cause of pain or suffering.
So now relating it back to the text, we see scourges of poverty.
Yeah, scourges of poverty, scourges of disease, and scourges of ignorance.
So we can see that poverty, ignorance, and disease cause a lot of really terrible things,
So that's why we say they are scourges.
So that brings us to the end of our words for takeaway today.
But as we talked about earlier, we've got some really difficult and interesting structures
So in Fluency Builder, we'll start off with the very first sentence of the paragraph.
When he said, we now stand 10 years past the midpoint of a century.
So I love this phrase.
We now stand 10 years past the midpoint of the century.
Now it's interesting because he is making reference to the future in the present.
And he's using a great phrase to do that.
We now stand.
Now we can change it a little bit and use the first part, we now stand in different
circumstances.
So why don't we listen to a couple of examples.
We now stand before you to declare our love and be united in marriage.
I stand before this court and declare my innocence.
Together we now stand before this great challenge and we will fight arm in arm to defeat poverty.
So you can see that this is a wonderful phrase to use maybe in a formal speech, right?
Or a wedding again or a formal ceremony.
So, and it gives you this idea, this sort of very poetic image of people sort of almost
standing at the cliff, standing before the, you know, some big change that's about to
take place.
So 10 years past the midpoint of a century, the United States has witnessed four major
wars, right?
And well, he said, despite the carnage of these conflicts, America is today the strongest,
the most influential and most productive nation in the world.
So a great, great, great structure here.
Despite the carnage of these conflicts, America today is the strongest blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah.
Now, let's look at that first word, despite the carnage of these conflicts.
So, carnage, what's that?
Carnage is like a massacre, right?
Where many people got hurt or killed.
So a pretty violent situation when a lot of people died.
And now why does he use this word despite?
So he's basically saying even though we had all of this death and violence in this century,
we're still the greatest nation, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
I can say, for example, despite the economic crisis the world is going through, our company
has an enormous opportunity to grow and be more profitable.
Or if we want to take it and imagine we're at a wedding, we might say something like
this.
You could say, despite the many difficulties this couple has faced, they have a very bright
and happy future together.
And now if we take a look at the last paragraph, it's very interesting because it's one sentence.
It's a really long sentence.
It's a very long sentence.
So even though it's not a phrase, let's take a look at the punctuation of this paragraph.
So Eisenhower starts out by saying, we pray that peoples of all face, all races, all nations
may have their great human needs satisfied.
And then we have a semicolon there, right?
So why do we have a semicolon?
Well, here's what he's doing.
He's saying we pray for something.
And then he's listing the many different things that he's praying for.
So it's basically a list.
So we know that when you're writing a list, we commonly use commas between all the things
that are in this list.
But here, because they are long and complex ideas, a comma is not enough.
You need a semicolon.
So we can see here from the text that the semicolon is a great way to separate ideas,
big ideas, complex ideas in a list.
So you can use it and not necessarily have to end your sentence or that each idea become
one sentence.
You can all just make it one big sentence.
You know, and actually I remember back to high school, Marco, my teacher told me, hey,
if you throw in a few semicolons into your writing and do it properly, you'll really
impress people.
So this is good advice that you can take and throw in a couple of semicolons, a little
bit of commas here and there, and it'll look like you really know how to write.
So with that in mind, why don't we listen to what Eisenhower wrote one last time.
We now stand 10 years past the midpoint of a century that has witnessed four major wars
Despite the carnage of these conflicts, America is today the strongest, the most influential
We are understandably proud of this preeminence, yet we realize that America's leadership
and prestige depend not merely upon our unmatched material progress, riches and military strength,
Thank you, and good night.
All right, we're back, and we're here again with Pete, our voice actor for the second
part of the dialogue.
And Pete, we have a couple more questions for you today.
So I hear in Eisenhower's speech that he keeps referencing God.
Like he keeps saying, I pray, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
He said God's speed, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Why is he talking about God?
Well, this is a very interesting question.
Traditionally, America has had a really clear boundary between church and state.
And you'll hear a lot of rhetoric these days that says, you know, we're a Christian nation,
and we were founded as a Christian nation.
Well, that's baloney.
Baloney, so it's not true.
At the time when the country was founded 200 years ago, it was overwhelmingly Christian.
If the founding fathers, as we call them, like George Washington and them, if they had
wanted a Christian nation, they could have had it.
They explicitly did not.
And a lot of people since then have gotten that confused.
And now when we have a very large Muslim population, we have Buddhists, we have, you know, people
in all various different kinds of, you know, Mormonism and everything, it's even less possible
now.
So I'm kind of baffled when I hear people say that America is a Christian nation.
But you even have it now in the coins, like, or on the money, right?
It says in God we trust.
That started in the early 20th century.
I think that was Teddy Roosevelt era.
He opposed that.
Roosevelt was really opposed to that, but...
They approved it.
And, you know, people said later, like Eisenhower talking about this stuff, you know, in America
we have something called the Pledge of Allegiance, which I don't think you guys probably have.
Not in Canada.
Obviously, you wouldn't do it to America, but to your own.
It's kind of...
Like a salute to the flag, right?
Yeah, it's a little bit nationalist.
I did it growing up.
You put your hand over your heart and you face the flag and you say, I pledge allegiance
to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one
nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
That part about one nation under God, that was added in the 50s as a kind of a way of
showing that America is not, quote unquote, a godless communist country.
Yeah, because communism teaches, you know, no religion.
And so they, make sure we're not communist.
Okay, but we don't think that, right?
I mean, I'm all about tolerance.
So I think that's kind of absurd.
Okay, so what I think is really interesting, though, is that every political speech, every
time a political leader has to say something publicly, he'll always quote God, right?
And they'll often end a speech with, you know, thank you and God bless America or something.
Which, you know what, for me as a Canadian is really strange.
Like if a Canadian president said, God bless Canada, everyone would, no one would know
what to do.
Like, I don't know.
Anyway, I had an ex-girlfriend who was British and she, like Tony Blair started with that
a couple times.
He said, you know, and God bless us all or something.
And she was just put off by it.
And she was like, the Brits will never take this.
And they didn't.
No one was impressed.
Well, an interesting feature of American history, politics and society.
So thanks for that insight, Pete.
My pleasure.
And if you guys have any comments or any suggestions about this lesson or any upcoming lessons,
just let us know.
Or American politics in general.
I'll try to stop in on the forum and see if I can answer a question or two.
That would be awesome.
So visit us at EnglishPod.com and Marco, myself and Pete are around to answer your questions.
We'll see you guys there.
Stay Foreign
And my name is Catherine.
And today, I think we're hitting the gym, Marco.
We need to be healthy.
We've gained weight over the winter, I think.
And being in an office, you know, it doesn't give you much opportunity to go and exercise
and really get a lot of work done during the day.
So that's why we're going to the gym on this occasion.
We're going to be pumping some iron.
We're going to be working out.
So why don't we take a look at Vocabulary Preview and see what this means.
So, to pump iron, what does that mean?
Well, to pumping iron means lifting weights.
So we're pumping iron.
We're lifting weights.
Because, you know, weights are made of iron.
That's what makes them so heavy.
And, well, we're going to be giving you guys some pointers.
So you might have heard the word point before.
And pointers is another word for tips.
So we're going to be giving you tips or advice.
So you're going to get some help today from the trainer.
So we're going to jump right into this dialogue.
And when we come back, we'll be talking more about what's going on.
Hey there.
You look a little lost.
Are you new here?
How did you know?
You can always spot the newbies.
I can give you a few pointers if you want.
Were you trying to use this machine here?
I just started my training today, and I'm not sure where to begin.
I know how it is.
This machine here will work out your upper body, mainly your triceps and biceps.
Are you looking to develop strength or muscle tone and definition?
Well, I don't want to be ripped like you.
I just want a good physique with weights and cardio.
In that case, you want to work with less weight.
You can start off by working 10 to 15 reps in four sets.
Five kilo weights should be enough.
Now it's very important that you stretch before pumping iron.
You might pull a muscle.
Is that the weight you're lifting?
My goodness, that's a lot of weight.
It's not that much.
Just watch.
I'm okay.
So this guy was a little bit arrogant.
I think he was very muscular, but I think he embarrassed himself in front of the lady.
The trainer, you mean?
Yeah, definitely.
So we say he had a big ego.
He thought a lot about himself.
So let's check out some of these phrases and words that they were using because they're
all related to going to the gym, and they can help you if you ever want to get some
help when you're at the gym.
So this girl, she was new in the gym.
She didn't really know what she was doing.
And well, the guy said, well, do you want to develop strength or muscle tone?
We know what strength is, but what is muscle tone?
So if you want to develop muscle tone or to have muscle tone, it means that you have healthy
muscles, not like huge, big muscles, right?
But you have a nice body.
So tone, to tone is to maybe give some shape to something.
Sometimes you have big arms and you can't see the muscles.
Well, muscle tone means that you can start to see the shape and they start to get stronger.
So if you think of Madonna, maybe five years ago, she had a lot of muscle tone.
Now she's like big muscles.
But muscle tone means that you can see the muscles, they start to develop.
And this actually is very related to our next word because you said muscle tone and definition.
So definition is another way for us to describe seeing those muscles because at first you
have a big tummy or you have big arms and when you start to work out, every time you
go, you can see more and more definition.
That means more and more of the muscle becomes visible.
So you have defined muscles.
Now the girl was like, no, no, I don't want to be like super strong and huge.
She doesn't want to look like Arnold Schwarzenegger.
She said, I just want a good physique.
So this word maybe sounds strange for some of you because it's more like French than
Well, it does come from French and physique is a way to talk about the whole body.
You know, the physique is the state of your whole body.
It's your physical appearance.
So I can say she has a nice physique.
So that means she's probably works out a lot.
So but basically it's like her whole body, right?
You can't just say like she has good physique in her arms or something like that.
And now your physique, physical, think of the word physical.
It's your whole body, your whole body.
So good physique.
And now the tips that he was giving her or the pointers, he was talking about these two
words reps and sets.
These are great words for the gym because they, they allow us to count when we're working
So the first one is reps or repetitions.
That means doing something over and over again.
So for example, if I want to lift a weight, I sit down on the bench, I do one, two, three.
How many times I lift that weight is a repetition or a rep.
And well, and what about sets?
So I could say I lift the weight 10 times, one, two, three, four, all the way to 10.
And then I wait and then I do it again.
So the number of times I do it again is a set.
So sets of 10 or sets of five.
So if you are lifting this weight 10 times and you have five sets, you will do a total
of 50 pushes or lifts or repetitions.
So reps and sets are probably the most important or common words you'll hear in the gym, especially
if you're lifting weights.
And sometimes your trainer will count with you so that he'll, he'll keep a count while
you're working out.
So those are the words that we have for you on Language Takeaway.
I think in order to better understand these words, we should listen to our dialogue again,
but we're going to slow it down just a little bit.
I just started my training today.
I'm not really sure where to begin.
Now, it's very important that you stretch before pumping iron or you might pull a muscle.
So, you might have heard some other phrases in there that sound interesting or new to
That's why we're going to go into the fluency builder part of the lesson where we can talk
about sounding more fluent in English.
Fluency builder.
So, the girl, she was a little bit lost, right?
So, this guy was trying to help her out.
I think it was her first time in the gym.
She doesn't really know where to start, which is a common problem for people who go to the
gym for the first time.
So, the guy said, well, yeah, I know how it is.
How what is?
It's a very strange phrase because it's vague.
So, what is he referring to?
This is something very common that we say in English to mean, I understand your situation.
I know how you feel.
So, she says, this is my first time.
I don't know what to do.
And he says, I know how it is.
I understand your situation.
Right, because I imagine the first time he went to the gym, he felt the same way.
Or I could say, I'm so lost.
I'm new at this school.
I don't even know anyone.
Yeah, I know how it is.
I was new here last year.
So, trust me, I know how it is.
So, Marco and I have similar situations, although he has already experienced it.
So, he can help me out.
This is a good phrase.
It's actually, I think it's very common for somebody to kind of sympathize with you.
And it's a really good phrase if you want to help someone who looks lost or confused.
So, if someone joins your work, if you have a new colleague, and they say, oh, I don't
know where anything is.
I don't know how to do anything at my job.
You say, oh, I know how it is.
I was new here last month.
And, well, now they were talking about, you know, lifting weights and the physique.
And she said this interesting word.
She says, I don't want to be ripped like you.
And many of you have probably heard the other meaning of the word to rip or ripped.
So, this is to rip.
Yeah, to tear.
But in this case, it's an adjective.
It's a way to describe someone's physique, their body.
And we're talking about people who are very, very muscular.
So, basically, bodybuilders.
Arnold Schwarzenegger is ripped.
He has huge muscles.
Madonna is ripped.
She has huge muscles.
So, it's a very informal way, but it's a very informal way of saying very muscular.
It's someone who works out a lot.
You're ripped.
And after this, we've got one more phrase.
It's actually very important because when we talk about going to the gym, working out,
we have to talk about safety and your health as well.
It's very easy to hurt yourself.
And that's what we want to avoid.
You don't want to pull a muscle.
Pull a muscle.
And this is a key phrase here because we have a special combination of verb and noun.
The thing that we pull is our muscle.
And what we do to it is we pull it.
That means we hurt it.
So if you don't stretch and you're lifting weights, maybe your muscle will start to hurt
and you can't lift anymore.
You hurt it.
You pulled your muscle.
You pulled a muscle.
Or often runners have this problem.
They don't stretch before they run or they run too much.
And they have a lot of pain in their muscles.
You say, I pulled a muscle.
Now, I think there's another way of saying it also is to tear a muscle, right?
Tear is more serious.
More serious.
A tear is like a little rip in your muscle and you should really see a doctor about that.
So we don't want you to pull a muscle or to tear a muscle.
So be sure to stretch.
But we have some more examples with this phrase, to pull a muscle.
Physical strains also called pull muscles are common sports injuries.
If you do not warm up before a physical activity, you can easily pull a muscle.
Anyone can pull a muscle because of overuse, muscle fatigue or through a fall.
Alright so now that that's clear, I think we can listen to our gym dialer one more time
and see what happens to this arrogant bodybuilder.
I just started my training today and I'm not sure where to begin.
This machine here will work out your upper body, mainly your triceps and biceps, and
your glutes.
So you can do a lot of different exercises.
I'm going to show you how to do a few exercises.
So I'm going to start with a squat.
I'm going to start with a squat.
I like to run and I often use the treadmill.
And I've never really understood the people
who don't run on the treadmill,
people who stand or who walk slowly.
And I remember my gym is usually very crowded.
I remember one time I was at my gym
and I wanted to run on the treadmill.
I had a long day at work and I had to go out afterwards.
So I didn't have much time.
I only had an hour and I really wanted to run,
but there's a line for the treadmills.
There are too many people.
And this particular day I was waiting
and waiting and waiting.
And finally it was my turn and I stepped
and a woman cut in front of me.
She cut in front of me and I was so angry.
And what did she do?
In her heels.
Heels?
Heels, big shoes.
She walked for 40 minutes.
You could go outside and walk.
I wanna run.
But she was wearing heels at the gym.
In her heels at the gym.
Wow, well, I guess you have to look nice
when you go to the gym also.
Apparently, apparently.
It is a very popular place for people to meet, right?
To start dating.
They say after the office, the gym is one
of the most common places for people
to meet their boyfriends and girlfriends.
Wow, so there's another good reason
why you should go to the gym.
Absolutely, yeah.
All right, so that's all the time we have for today,
but we would like to hear if you have any questions,
any doubts or comments.
So come to our site, EnglishPod.com.
And if you have any gym stories,
we'd also like to hear those.
So that's gonna do it for us.
Until next time, everyone, bye.
All right, bye.
Welcome back to another great lesson here at EnglishPod.
So, Marco, today we've got a little bit of an unusual lesson because we're talking about
hypothetical situations.
We're talking about a unreal situation or something that may happen or may not happen.
So, you're going to hear all about this in today's dialogue.
We're going to hear it a couple of times.
When we come back, we'll be breaking it down for you.
So, you know all about these great phrases and how to talk about not real situations
with your friends.
Next question.
If Eric asked you out on a date, what would you say?
I would say yes.
Eric is the most popular kid in school.
My turn.
What would you do if you won the lottery?
If I won the lottery, I would buy two tickets for trips around the world.
If you buy me a ticket, I'll go with you for sure.
My dad would freak out if I even mention a trip like that.
This is a good one.
What would your mom say if you told her that you're going to get married?
If I told her that, she would faint and have me committed.
So, I think that was clear and well, a very common situation to teenage girls talking
to each other about, you know, boys and what would you do and da-da-da.
Guys do this too.
So, don't just put this on the girls, okay?
I don't think we do it like this though.
No, but it's actually a very popular game in the car to play.
The what if game.
And that's exactly the topic that we want to talk about today is the structure what
if which is actually called a conditional.
It's called a conditional because the results, the thing that happens depends on something
else.
So, let's actually take a look at the words in today's language takeaway before we talk
about all this grammar stuff.
So, we'll start out with some basic words.
Well, you know, they were talking about guys and she said if Eric asked you out.
So, to ask somebody out.
Okay, so this might be a little bit strange because you think, okay, to ask is to ask
a question.
But to ask out, it's a fixed phrase.
It's something you say, these two words go together, right?
So, I want to ask someone out, that means I want to invite someone on a date.
On a romantic date, usually.
I want to ask him out to dinner or he asked me out to the movies.
Now, if I didn't want to ask somebody out on a romantic date, what verb would you use?
I'd say you could invite someone out.
But then again, it's always a little bit, well, you can say invite for someone if you're
going to ask them on a date too.
So, I'd say to ask out is always romantic and to invite can be romantic or just friends.
Now, they were talking about other situations, maybe they would go on a trip or something
and she said my dad would freak out.
This is a great phrase, this is something that I used a lot when I was a teenager.
The word freak out?
Freak out.
So, the verb to freak out means to be really angry or upset or, you know, it could be a
good thing or a bad thing.
But usually, when we're talking about our parents, it's a bad thing.
It's a bad thing.
So, they get angry, they start yelling at you.
So, freak out means like overreact.
The last word that we have in language takeaway today is committed.
Well let's look at the whole phrase.
He says she would have me committed.
So, this is actually being done to someone.
Now, we did look at this word before but basically for marriage, right?
To commit to somebody, to promise.
Yeah, but to have someone committed means that you're going to send them away to maybe
a mental institution.
So, this means they have psychological problems and someone else sends them to the hospital
because they can't send themselves.
So, it's always used to have someone committed, right?
Right, because it's being done to them.
They don't want it to happen.
It's involuntary.
So, she had him committed.
My mom's going to have me committed if I keep working 20 hours a day.
So, that's the way you use it.
So, now you have another way of using this verb.
But now I think we should listen to this dialogue again.
We're going to slow it down a little bit and then we'll come back and look at this grammar
focus that we want to talk about.
Okay, next question.
Duh, I would say yes.
Okay, my turn.
If I won the lottery, I would buy two tickets for a trip around the world.
If you buy me a ticket, I will go with you for sure.
Alright, this is a good one.
What would your mom say if you told her you were going to get married?
Alright, so we understood all the vocab now.
Now let's take a look at these unreal situations and what we were saying, the what if game.
Right, so I think it's important to push these into two different categories, right?
We have one kind where it's very unrealistic, it's probably not going to happen, that kind
of situation.
And the other one is a situation that could very well happen, something that's probably
very common, okay?
So the first one we're going to talk about is very unrealistic situations, things that
probably won't happen.
Okay, so let's take a look at an example that we found in the dialogue.
The most common one and I think everybody gets asked this question is, if you won the
lottery, what would you do?
Okay, if you won the lottery.
So this is a situation that's very uncommon, right?
Not many people win the lottery.
So we have to say, if you won the lottery, so we use this verb in the past tense.
If you won the lottery, if this happened, what would you do?
So, Catherine, if you won the lottery, what would you do?
If I won the lottery, I would buy a boat and sail around the world with my friends.
Alright, so another example, again, using the same structure, right?
The verb in the simple past tense, we would say, if you were stuck on an island with one
other person, who would that be?
Alright, so if you were stuck on a desert island with one person, who would that person
So Marco, I'm going to ask you, who would it be?
I think it would be an engineer or a scientist that could probably get me off the island.
What about your girlfriend?
No, no, well, you know, that's the point, if I can get to her quicker.
I would say maybe kind of romantic, but kind of not.
So that's the first situation.
We've got these situations like being stuck on an island, winning the lottery.
These are very unlikely.
But what about the other kind?
But before we move on to that, you notice that we use the verb was, we didn't say, if
I was on an island, I said, if I were, right?
Or if you were.
So this is the way that you use it in these conditionals.
If I were you, or if you were president of the United States.
Yeah, this is a rule.
So this is a grammar rule.
We're not going to describe why it happens because it's very, very complicated.
And you can look it up on our site.
But we're going to describe how to use it.
That's the most important.
So we can say, for example, Marco, if I were you, I would dye my hair red.
I think it would look cool.
So if I were you, I would.
Or if you were me, what would you do?
So we always use it like this, right?
If you're going to use this conditional, always use were for the subject.
Never was.
So you can tell.
This is a very, very big grammar issue.
A lot of English speakers make this mistake.
Yes, very many.
But now you know that you shouldn't make this mistake and you can speak properly.
All right, so now that we've seen these semi-unreal situations, let's move on to something that's
a little bit more probable, that it may happen.
So we've got these situations that are common or likely.
For example, in this lesson we hear, I will go with you for sure.
So this is, if you buy me a ticket to travel, of course I will go with you.
So if you buy, this is in the present tense, if you buy, then I will.
So now you notice the difference.
The verb is in the present and then we use, instead of would, we use will.
So again, I can say, if it rains tomorrow, I will stay home and watch TV all day.
Okay, so think about this.
Before we talked about going to desert islands, now we're talking about rain and the weather.
They're very, very different.
The rain is, you know, it's very common.
So we can say, if it rains tomorrow, I will need an umbrella.
What about this?
If we have lunch tomorrow, what will we eat?
Okay, so we have lunch pretty much every day, right?
Yeah, pretty much.
So again, it's a situation that is very probable.
So if we have lunch tomorrow, we will probably eat, I don't know, pasta, I think.
I'm feeling like pasta.
Pasta, noodles.
All right, so Marco, let's take another listen to some of these phrases and try and figure
out while you're listening, which kind of conditional it is, first or the second.
If it's sunny today, we will go to the park.
I would get a divorce if I were you.
Mary will be very sad if Joe leaves.
We wouldn't be so late if Nick drove faster.
So we have two different examples and the first conditional is the one that we mentioned
is very probable and the second conditional is the one that's not so probable.
So they're very easy to distinguish.
You don't really need to know the names, just know how to use them, right?
And so just remember, if you were me, what would you do?
We've got these kind of pairs, these words that go together.
And the other one is more common.
If it rains tomorrow, I will bring an umbrella.
So why don't we listen to this dialogue for the last time just to kind of reinforce everything
and then we'll come back and talk a little bit more.
Okay next question.
All right, this is a good one.
So Marco, if we talk any more about grammar, someone's going to have to have me committed.
It is a little bit difficult to talk about grammar, especially on a podcast because it's
such a difficult topic and it's also kind of heavy, right?
It is, but I'll tell you this.
These are very, very common phrases.
People use these all the time.
We talk in hypotheticals very often.
So if you're asking for advice, for example, or if you're just playing a game in the car,
you're going to encounter these and it's very important to be able to know how to use them.
So, and this is what we want to see now.
Please come to our website at EnglishPod.com and you have a million questions.
You have a million hypotheticals that you can leave on our website.
Ask us the craziest, funniest, weirdest questions that you can, right?
And if you have questions about the stuff that we've been talking about, you're not
really clear on some things, just ask us because we're happy to answer your questions and give
more examples on the website.
Bye, everyone.
EnglishPod at www.engvid.com
And my name is Katherine.
And today we're talking about being on the road.
Yeah, we're going to be on the road, but we're going to encounter a little bit of a car problems.
My favorite kind.
I think it's happened to everyone.
You're on the road or maybe you're coming back from work, you get a flat tire or something
happens to your car, right?
And it's always when you're in a rush.
And most of the time it's raining.
It's snowing.
So all of the circumstances definitely, well, they don't help.
Let's just say.
So before we listen to this dialogue, let's take a look at some of the words in today's
So we're going to take a look at two words.
They're kind of strange.
I don't know, kind of difficult to understand.
So that's what we're going to explain them.
The first one is spew, to spew.
It's a verb, okay?
To spew.
Well, what can spew?
Volcano can spew.
An engine can spew.
A person can spew.
That's not very nice.
So basically it's to like expel or to shoot out from your mouth or something liquid.
So in the case of a person, right?
So if a person spews, it means a person throws up, but it's usually very forceful.
It's very messy.
A volcano can spew lava.
So a volcano is spewing lava.
Now for the next word that we have, it's an informal way of saying that something is broken.
You could say it's busted.
It's busted.
My DVD player is busted.
Man, my phone is busted.
So it's an informal way, very popular, very common I would say, to describe that something
is not working.
I don't think many people actually say, well, it's broken or it's damaged.
They're pretty much mixed I think, but you will definitely hear busted if you're talking
to native English speakers.
Or even like, for example, your arm.
He's got a busted arm.
So busted.
Let's see what's going on with this car trouble and then we'll come back and explain some
Howdy.
Nice car.
This stupid old car started being white smoke and it just died on me.
Luckily I managed to start it up and drive it here.
What do you think it is?
Not sure yet.
How about you pop the hood and we could take a look?
Mm.
My daddy gave me this car for my birthday last month.
It's brand new.
Well, missy, the white smoke that you saw is steam from the radiator.
You overheated your engine so now the pistons are busted, and so is your transmission.
You should have called us and we could have towed you over here when your car died.
Ugh. So, how long is this going to take? An hour?
I'm afraid a bit more than that.
We need to order the spare parts, take apart your electrical system, fuel pump, and engine, and then put it back together again.
You're going to have to leave it here for at least, uh, two weeks.
What? How am I supposed to go to school? Or go shopping? This is not happening.
So if I were the mechanic, I would not be very happy to be dealing with someone like this girl.
I think it's, uh, well maybe it's a little bit stereotypical that we put it as a girl,
because guys and girls, so many people don't know anything about cars or mechanics.
And in the States, there's a lot of female mechanics too, so it's, you know, it's mixed.
But definitely it's something that happens all the time, and probably the mechanic will overcharge her as well,
because apparently she doesn't know what she's doing.
And that's one of the reasons we want to give you the vocabulary to deal with these situations.
So let's look at some of those car words in today's Language Takeaway.
Alright, so we're going to take a look at very specific words related to cars and the engines and everything.
So let's start with the first one.
Radiator.
Radiator. Alright, so the radiator of the car.
So a radiator is something that you normally find in the front of the car near the engine.
It usually gets very, very hot, right?
So one of the big issues is radiators getting too hot because there's no way to cool them down.
Mm-hmm. So if you live in a place that's very hot, the radiator keeps your engine cool because it has water in it.
So if it overheats, or maybe you didn't put enough water in there, then it'll start spewing steam like in this dialogue.
And if you have a problem with your radiator, you could actually do a lot of damage to your engine, which is why this is important.
Exactly, and that's what happened in this dialogue.
So a radiator. Now, because the radiator wasn't working well, it overheated the engine, and he said they had some busted pistons.
So broken pistons. Pistons are important because they're kind of like valves that go up and down.
Right. So inside your engine, you have mini explosions, and the pistons move up and down, and that's what actually moves your car.
Right. And so pistons, in general, are things in mechanics. So like a trumpet has pistons, things that go up and down and that allow for the flow of air.
Air or something like that. Very good. So that's a piston. And, well, another very common mechanic term is the transmission.
Alright, so the transmission. What happens if your transmission dies? Can you still drive?
You basically can't move, or maybe you only have one gear or two gears.
Alright, so think about transmission as coming from the word to transmit. That means to transfer.
So this is the part of the car that transfers energy or the power to actually move the car. So the transmission.
And we've got the mechanic who says, well, we've got to order you some spare parts. So first, let's look at the word spare.
What's another word for spare? Additional, maybe extra.
Right. So spare means extra. Parts are, well, pieces. So he's talking about ordering a new transmission, new pistons, things to replace the broken things.
Spare parts. So this is where you go to the mechanic to get some spare parts and get them installed.
You probably don't have many spare parts at home, right? You got a transmission lying around.
Well, yeah, so spare parts. And the last word that we're going to take a look at is a fuel pump.
Okay, so a pump is, you could have a bike pump.
A water pump.
Water pump. So these are something, these are some things that we use very, very often.
But a fuel pump is something that allows gas, gasoline, to get into your engine.
So it's basically a device that pushes gasoline into the engine so you can start.
And that's the same thing with the water pump. It's a device that pushes water.
Or an air pump is something that pushes air into your tires and your bicycle.
Exactly. So a fuel pump, water pump, etc.
Wow, I feel like we know a lot about cars.
Yeah, apparently we do. See? Alright, so now that we've taken a look at all of these great words, let's move on to a couple of phrases in Fluency Builder.
Alright, these are phrases that you hear sometimes when you're talking about electronics.
But in today's lesson, we're also talking about specific car phrases.
So you're going to hear these all the time at the mechanics.
Right, and the first one is, the car suddenly died on me.
Alright, to die on. So we keep these two words together, die on.
Oh man, so while you were driving, your car died. It stopped moving.
So that means that it doesn't work anymore.
And it's not only for cars, right? You can say my MP3 player died on me today.
Exactly, and what it means is, it's not like you left it and you forgot about it and you tried it again and it didn't work.
It means while you're using it, it dies. It doesn't work.
So I think this phrase is a good one to give some other examples. So let's listen.
So this next one is a phrase you hear, the first thing you hear maybe, when you tell someone you have a car problem.
Right, you tell them to pop the hood.
Or let's pop the hood. So this means let's open the front part of the car, the hood, to look at the engine, transmission, all those parts.
Exactly. So you can say open the hood, but the most common one is pop the hood.
So the reason is because there is a little spring and you have to pull inside the car and it goes pop, and there's a little jump.
So it's literally popping.
Right, or you can also say the trunk, right, the back part of the car.
Hey, can you pop the trunk for me? I've got to put some stuff inside.
Exactly, so pop the hood, pop the trunk.
And next we've got this girl actually, who's talking about her car because she just got this car.
So what's another way to say it's a new car?
Is that more new than new?
It's like newer, newer than new.
Alright, so brand, you think about brands like Ford or Gucci, these are brands, but brand new means she maybe got it like today.
So it's brand new, it's very, very new.
Did you see my brand new watch?
Oh, it is nice, did you get it? Alright, so brand new.
And well, the last phrase that we have for you today is to take apart something.
Alright, so this is very popular with young children, like they like to take things apart so they can find out how they work.
But to take apart means to take all the pieces and to pull them out.
Yeah, I used to do that a lot when I was a kid.
I used to take apart any electronic device to kind of see how it works and then I would try to put it back together again.
That's why you're so smart.
Well, it never really worked, it worked half the time.
So the problem is always putting them back together again, right?
Exactly, so you can take it apart, but then you put it back together and there's always a screw missing or a screw that's extra or two or three parts.
Not a good sign.
Alright, so we've taken a look at a lot of great words and phrases, so let's listen to this dialogue for the last time.
Not sure yet. How about you pop the hood and we can take a look?
Mmm, doesn't look good.
What do you mean? My daddy gave me this car for my birthday last month. It's brand new.
You overheated your engine so now the pistons are busted and so is your transmission.
Ugh, so how long is this going to take? An hour?
I'm afraid a bit more than that. We need to order the spare parts, take apart your electrical system, fuel pump and engine, and then put it back together again.
You're going to have to leave it here for at least two weeks.
Alright, so car trouble. Have you ever had any very serious car trouble or something weird happened to your car?
Actually, the week before I decided to leave Chicago, I had this 1991 Honda Civic hatchback, so only two doors.
And I was driving home from work, I was on the highway, had the radio on, the windows open, and then doo doo doo doo, boom.
It died.
It died in the middle of the highway during rush hour. So that's when there's tons of cars and I didn't know what to do.
So I'm calling people and then all of a sudden I see someone tapping on my window. And there's cars everywhere.
And it's this guy. And he's like, listen, do you need a hand? I said yes.
So I put the car in neutral so that there's no brake. And he pushed it to a side road and gave me a ride home.
He was the coolest guy, he was so nice. And he was just there with his truck, he's a gardener, and just gave me a ride home.
It was super, super cool.
And so it turns out my engine died. No, the engine was new, it was the transmission, it was shot. It was totally broken.
But I was very lucky to have such a kind person.
Yeah, that's a good story because usually people are too afraid or maybe a little bit reluctant to stop and see if you're okay or if you need a ride or something.
Because you can't really trust people these days.
But it's good. Once I saw somebody on the side of the road that had a flat tire, it was two girls and they didn't know what to do.
So I was passing by. It was actually raining. And I was like, hey, do you guys need a hand?
And they're like, yeah, please. We can't locate my dad or whatever. So I was like, changing the tire, it's not a big deal, right?
And they wanted to tip me, they wanted to give me some money.
They're like, oh, please take this, you're so kind, your time, and you're all wet. And I'm like, no, no, don't worry about it.
That's a nice thing to do. If you know anything about cars, I mean, or if you can offer someone a lift.
I know it's not terribly safe to ride with strangers, but this guy totally helped me out.
Nice. All right. Well, maybe you guys have some cool or maybe some interesting stories of what's happened with your cars or maybe you've helped somebody out.
So come to our website at EnglishPod.com and let us know.
And of course, if you have any questions about the vocabulary or phrases that you heard today, please ask away.
Don't hesitate. And, well, again, we hope to see you on the website.
All right. We'll see you guys there.
EnglishPod 1998.
And my name is Kathryn and today we're talking about being clean.
Yeah, we're going to be doing the laundry, right?
It's a very important part of everyone's weekly schedule.
And not only important, but I find it to be a little bit difficult because, you know,
like washing machine and what clothes you should mix with what, you know, how much detergent
and how long.
It's such a complicated process.
Well, let's say this, it might not be difficult, but it's very easy to mess up.
Yeah, that's the problem.
It's very easy to like just ruin your favorite t-shirt if you don't do laundry correctly.
Or all of your white socks turn pink, for example.
So we're going to be looking at a lot of vocabulary and phrases related to this topic.
And before we get started with the dialogue, why don't we take a look at vocabulary preview?
Okay, so central to all of these phrases and words that we're going to be hearing is a
thing, an electric thing that helps us wash our clothes.
Right, a washing machine.
Right, pretty simple, right?
So washing is to wash, washing and machine.
So they go together, washing machine.
So it's easy now, you just put all your clothes in this thing and it washes it for you.
Now, you know, a lot of people don't like to use washing machines.
They say it doesn't really clean the clothes as well as doing it by hand.
Well, I'd say most clothes get washed pretty well with a washing machine.
But if you have those hard to get stains or some dirt, maybe it's good to have a washing
A washing board, yeah.
Yeah, where you can really scrub it yourself.
And well, funny you mentioned that word stain because it's our second word that we're going
to preview, a stain.
Right, a stain is some color, maybe some food or wine or grass that you can't remove from
your clothes.
So it's very common.
You're having a nice dinner and all of a sudden you spill wine on your shirt.
So you have a wine stain.
And you can also have stain on your, you can also have a stain on your carpet, right?
So if you spill some coffee on your carpet, it's got a little circle that's brown forever.
Or even some people have stained the teeth, right?
So you can get them turned back white with a little money to your dentist.
So those are the two words that we're going to be looking at today in Vocabulary Preview.
Let's see what's happening with these people that are doing laundry.
Okay, let's go through this one more time.
I don't want any more ruined or dyed blouses.
I know, I know.
So I had to separate the colors from the whites and put them in this strange looking contraption
so-called washing machine.
You have to turn it on and program it depending on what type of clothes you're washing.
For example, for delicates, you should set a shorter washing cycle.
Also be sure to use fabric softener and this detergent when washing.
So complicated.
What about this red wine stain?
How do I get it out?
Since this is a white t-shirt, you can just pour a little bit of bleach on it and it will
do the trick.
Then I can just throw everything in the dryer for an hour and it's all set, right?
Since you're washing delicates and cotton, you should set the dryer to medium heat and
for 20 minutes.
I'll just have everything dry cleaned.
Okay, so we've got someone who is maybe doing the laundry for the first time and he's not
really understanding the instructions he's got.
Well, that's the thing I tell you.
It's a little bit difficult and well, it's very tedious at times to try and do laundry
like this.
Well, the first thing that's maybe tedious about it is that you have to really worry
about what colors go together.
So let's take a look at those words that were related to doing laundry now in Language Takeaway.
Okay, the first word we have is actually related to a joke we made earlier about pink socks.
So if you change the color of something, you're dying it.
Okay, die.
So it's pronounced exactly the same way as, you know, to die, to not live anymore.
Die.
But it's spelled differently.
D-Y-E.
Okay, so it can be a verb or an adjective.
Or an noun.
Or a noun.
So something that you put on clothes to change the color is called a dye.
A dye.
But to do this, to change the color of some clothes is to dye the clothes.
So that's maybe what happens when you wash a red t-shirt with all your white t-shirts.
Then you have dyed shirts.
You have pink shirts and...
And also women, when they go to the beauty salon, they dye their hair.
So to change the color of your hair, it means it's a long-term change.
It's not short.
It's not like one day.
It means probably for a long time.
So that's the correct word, to dye.
Very different.
Maybe some people say to paint, which, you know, we understand, but the correct form
would be to dye.
And next we have a word that describes a certain kind of clothing.
We're not talking about pants or socks.
We're talking about delicates.
Delicates.
So now this adjective, delicate, which means it's very... easy to break.
Fragile, right?
But this is a noun, delicates.
So you think of something that's easy to break or to ruin, maybe you think of underwear.
Underwear.
You know, underwear is something you wear under your clothing and so it's generally
not as strong as a shirt or a pair of jeans.
And so we call these in English delicates.
So you have to be careful when you're washing your delicates because it's happened to me
before.
You know, you come in with all the clothes and then you have stretched out boxers or
something like that.
So that's why many women, I know, wash delicates by hand.
So you separate the clothes from the delicates.
And now if you're washing delicates or you're washing towels or t-shirts, it's always a
good idea to use fabric softener.
All right, fabric softener.
What are these two words?
One of them you understand already.
Maybe it's soft, softener.
So it makes it soft.
Something that makes something softer.
We've got fabric softener.
It's something that makes the clothes that you wash softer.
So fabric is any type of material, right?
Like a textile.
So it could be cotton or silk or nylon, linen.
So these are all kinds of fabrics.
So you pour a little bit of this in your washing machine and your clothes come out really nice
and soft.
It feels nice just talking about it.
And well, also to wash your clothes, to actually make them clean, you use detergent.
So many people might want to say the word soap because soap is what we use to wash our
hands and our dishes.
But here we have detergent.
So this is a special soap for your clothes.
Laundry detergent.
You could just say laundry.
You could say laundry detergent or simply detergent.
And now in order to remove those nasty stains that maybe are very hard, you would use a
chemical called bleach.
So bleach is the dangerous chemical because it smells very strong.
And it can change the color of your clothes to white or yellow.
So we usually only use bleach with white clothes.
I actually had a friend who changed the color of his hair to white using bleach.
He put bleach on his head and on his hair and it just turned white.
So many people do that because they want to go from dark colors to light colors.
And in that case, you wouldn't say, you could say that he dyed his hair white, but usually
you would say he bleached his hair.
And so we understand that it turned white.
So those five words we just looked at in language takeaway, they're important.
They're related to doing laundry.
So before we move on, let's listen to our dialogue again, but a little bit slower.
Let's go through this one more time.
So I have to separate the colors from the whites and put them in this strange looking
contraption so-called washing machine.
You have to turn it on and program it depending on what type of clothes you are washing.
Also, be sure to use fabric softener and this detergent when washing.
Since you are washing delicates and cotton, you should set the dryer to medium heat and
I'll just have everything dry clean.
So here at EnglishPod, we'd like to also provide you listeners with some phrases that allow
you to increase your fluency.
That means sound more like a native English speaker.
And so today, let's check out these phrases in Fluency Builder.
So on Fluency Builder, we're going to be looking at four words or four phrases.
So the first one was really easy when she was telling the guy or instructing him how
to do the laundry, she said, let's go through this one more time.
Go through what?
The wall?
So it's not actually to go through an object, like to pass.
So it's let's repeat or let's rehearse again.
So normally we say this when there are many different steps to do something.
So let's go through this again.
When you leave work, you go home, you unlock the door, you open the door.
And then so it means that there's a process.
There are many steps.
And so let's go through this again is a way for us to say let's think about and discuss
this process.
So we also use it maybe when we're studying.
So let's go through this subject one more time.
Can we go through chapter five again?
So you would reread a chapter five.
So why don't we listen to a couple of more examples of how we could use go through.
I want to go through chapter five again before the exam tomorrow.
David, do you have time this afternoon to go over the details of this new project?
I went through my contract and it says that I am entitled to 15 vacation days a year.
Now this next phrase is very common when we're using sarcasm, when we're trying to make jokes.
So we say so-called.
So she said this so-called contraption.
It's like she doubts that it's really a washing machine.
So I could say her so-called boyfriend wants to go out tonight.
So I say that because he doesn't really act like a boyfriend.
So you're being sarcastic.
It's a very good way and easy way of demonstrating sarcasm.
Actually, in the 1990s in America, there was a very famous TV show called My So-Called
Life.
So this is my so-called life.
It's almost like it's not really like I have any control over it.
Or I don't really have a life because it's kind of boring.
So my so-called life, not bragging.
It's a joke.
So you can say my so-called friends, my so-called job.
Basically, you can almost be sarcastic with anything.
But be careful that you know that it's a joke because if you're trying to be serious, you
might make some people angry.
And now, well, she was explaining the whole process of how to do it.
And when she recommended using bleach, she said that should do the trick.
Trick.
So dogs do tricks, right?
But to do the trick, right?
What is she saying?
So it's got a different meaning.
So she's basically saying this should work.
This should fix your problem.
So that should do the trick.
So Marco, I've been having this itch on my foot and I just can't seem to figure out what
to do with it.
You should maybe just put some ointment on it and that should do the trick.
Thanks for the suggestion.
So very easy.
It's just a way of saying that should solve your problem.
So that's the trick or it will do the trick.
And well, we have one last phrase, all set.
All set.
So this is another phrase that has two words that always go together to mean, well, we're
finished.
We're done.
Everything is ready.
We're all set to go on vacation.
So my bags are packed.
I have my passports.
We are all set.
Or after a meeting, you can say, are we all set here?
That means, are we finished?
Is it time to leave?
So we are almost all set.
Since this is a white T-shirt, you can just pour a little bit of bleach on it and it will
If you're washing delicates and cotton, you should set the dryer to medium heat and for
20 minutes.
Have you ever had any laundry mishaps?
Have you ever lost a sock, dyed something?
Have I ever.
I hate doing the laundry.
So much.
It's time consuming.
It takes a lot of time and I just have no patience.
And so normally, when I was in college, I would take all of my laundry in a bag and
I'd throw it in the washing machine and I'd put it on cold.
Because cold water, it's okay for all colors, but hot water makes the colors bleed.
I took out the clothes and put them in the dryer and afterwards I saw all my clothes
were clean except for my three sweaters, which were small enough for babies.
Oh, you shrunk it.
I shrunk three brand new sweaters.
The problem that I have when doing laundry is that I forget that I started doing laundry.
So all of a sudden, I'm doing laundry in the morning and then clothes are washed, but they're
still in the washing machine.
And I remember the next day.
So then the clothes are smelling kind of humid.
Because they're moldy.
So I have to rewash them and it's just a pain.
And doing laundry is sometimes so time consuming, but let us know what you think.
Do you like doing laundry or have you ever lost a sock?
I think everyone has lost a sock or something in the washing, right?
I don't know what happens.
I think there's a secret home for socks somewhere.
It's so weird.
Maybe it's in Australia or something.
Give us all your feedback, questions, comments or suggestions.
And we're always there.
Hope to hear from you soon.
And until next time, everyone.
Katarina And my name is Katarina.
So Marco, you've been shopping a lot lately.
Marco I have.
And this dialogue or this lesson today is one of my favorite pieces of furniture, maybe
appliances that I've bought recently, and it's a TV.
Katarina All right.
So I'd even go for electronics with that one.
The electronics department is somewhere you like to hang out.
Marco Uh-huh.
I mean, I think every guy loves, you know, like a big screen TV and a home theater system.
So you just like go deaf after watching.
Katarina Why is that?
Is bigger really better when it comes to like a 70 inch TV?
Marco Well, I don't know.
I think, yeah, the whole experience of just seeing this movie on this huge TV and like
having all the sound and I don't know, it's just something about that or watching a football
game with your buddies and you can actually watch.
Katarina Oh, fun.
Okay, that I can appreciate.
But we've got a couple of great words for you.
We're going to preview in today's vocabulary preview.
Marco Okay, so on vocabulary preview today, we're
going to be looking at two words.
The first one is to appreciate.
So this basically means to like.
Marco Yeah, you appreciate someone.
But in this context, to enjoy or take advantage of something.
So...
Katarina Maybe you hear this with a couple, two people
who are fighting and the girl says to the guy, you don't appreciate me.
So he doesn't really care about her in the way that she wants him to.
Or you could say this about a TV, for example, I can't appreciate my PS3, my great, awesome
console, my gaming system, because my TV is not good enough.
Marco Or big enough.
Katarina Or big enough.
Or big enough.
So this means that it could be a lot better if I just bought a better TV.
Marco Right.
And if you buy a better TV, then you basically are upgrading or to upgrade.
Katarina Okay, so this verb to upgrade means to go
from something that's okay to something that's better.
Marco Exactly.
So in previous lessons, we've seen to get a complimentary upgrade, for example, on a
flight or in a hotel.
Katarina I like that.
Well, you can also get an upgrade on a computer.
You say, well, my computer's from 1994.
I really need to get an upgrade.
Marco Yeah, for sure.
So to upgrade.
Now, we're going to be listening to this dialogue for the first time, we're going to be buying
a TV.
Katarina Seriously, I don't know why we need to get
a new TV.
Marco Honey, I told you already.
I can't appreciate the graphics level and detail of the games on my PlayStation 3 on
our old TV.
Good afternoon, folks, how can I be of service today?
I'm looking to upgrade to a newer, bigger television set.
You've come to the right place.
What size are you looking for?
Just a normal size TV for a living room.
Well, this set here is on sale.
It's a 46 inch HT TV screen and it has all the works three HDMI connectors, USB, VGA
and S video ports.
It even has a DVI port so you can hook up your PC or laptop.
This is without a doubt the complete home theater experience.
This is exactly what I need.
Can you imagine watching movies or playing video games on this thing?
Katarina Honey, I think it's a bit too big.
I don't even think it will fit in our living room.
We will deliver and install it in your home.
It comes with a wall mount so you can just hang it on the wall like a picture.
This is great.
How much will this set me back?
Lucky for you, this is the last one we have in stock, so it's half off.
All right, so I'm going to have to defer to you, Marco, on some of these words in today's
language takeaway because they're all about TV specifics.
All right, the first word that we're going to be looking at is graphics, the graphics
level.
All right, so you might have heard this before with the phrase graphic designer, someone
who designs images.
But in this case, we're talking about graphics, so the way things appear on your TV.
So basically the pictures, right?
So he wanted to appreciate the graphics of his PlayStation 3 better, and that's why he
wanted a new TV.
All right, or he could say, my computer has amazing graphics.
It means games are really fun because they look good.
Or this game has amazing graphics, so the game has places or scenery that looks really,
really real.
All right, so graphics.
But some kinds of TVs are made to provide those wonderful graphics, and those are called
HDTV.
Right, and HDTV, or that's an acronym for high definition television.
All right, and I heard some actors and actresses were complaining about HDTV because the picture
quality is so good that you can see all of the little problems on their face, the little
wrinkles and the pimples and the scars.
So be careful because one day we're going to be able to see way too much.
So on high definition television, that's basically what you get is better definition, better level
of graphics.
So more pixels per inch, you can see a lot more clarity.
Right, so an HDTV.
The next thing we're talking about is actually kind of related to the back part of your TV
where you plug things in.
Sometimes it's on the side, sometimes it's on the back.
Well, there are different names for different kinds of plugs.
So today we're going to talk about two of those.
One of them is USB.
Right, this TV has a USB port, which basically stands for universal serial bus.
All right, so a port is a place where you plug something in.
Your computer has a lot of ports as well.
But USB is maybe more common for people who have iPods or computers because this is how
we normally connect things to our computers.
So in this case, this television, you could connect maybe your iPod and reproduce videos
or pictures onto the TV.
Or in the second case, we have a DVI port.
So DVI, you're going to have to tell me about this one, Marco, because I'm not so sure.
Well, a DVI is basically a digital video input.
So basically you can connect your computer to the TV and see what's on your screen.
And so if you have a bunch of movies stored on your computer, you can just plug it into
the TV and watch.
Or you can even navigate the internet on a big screen TV.
So what are these three HDMI connectors?
Well, this is a new technology.
Basically, you know how before you used to get your DVD player, your VHS, and you had
three cables, two for sound and one for video?
Yeah, the red, yellow, and white cables.
So with this new type of cable or technology, with one cable, it takes all the information
to the TV.
So just one cable for everything.
The problem is I always used to put the wrong cable in the wrong port, so I'd have the red
cable in the yellow port, and then I'd say, where's the video?
I can't see.
All I can do is listen.
Yeah, it happens.
So with this, now it's easy.
And well, it's a little bit more organized, because I remember I used to have a TV and
I had a lot of different things connected to it.
It was just this big spider web in the back with all these cables.
So an HDMI, high definition multimedia interface connector.
And what else do we have?
Well, the last thing we're talking about is actually the place to put your TV.
So a lot of people now are putting their TVs on walls like paintings, because these TVs
are so thin.
So we call this a wall mount.
So a mount, to mount something is also a verb, right?
Yeah, it means to put something up or to hang something up.
So many people like to mount their trophies to show off.
So this is what we're doing with the TV.
We're going to mount it on the wall like a painting.
So those are our words for language takeaway.
Let's take another listen to today's dialogue.
We're going to slow it down this time and really figure out what's going on.
Seriously, I don't know why we need to get a new TV.
Honey, I told you already.
Good afternoon, folks.
How can I be of service today?
Just a normal sized TV for a living room.
It's a 46 inch HTTV screen and it has all the works.
Three HDMI connectors, USB, VGA, and S-video ports.
Honey, I think it's a bit too big.
Lucky for you, this is the last one we have in stock so it's half off.
So now we're going to be taking a look at three different phrases that we saw in this
dialogue in Fluency Builder.
This first phrase is definitely one that I use a lot.
We can talk about food.
We can talk about electronics.
We can talk about most different things.
But the phrase here is the works.
He's getting the works.
That means any option he could get, any possibility, he wants it all.
So if you're getting a new car, for example, right, you're getting the high definition
sound system.
You're getting nice tires, leather seats.
You're getting the works.
Or if you're getting a hamburger and you want the works, you're getting it with cheese and
lettuce and tomato and pepper and bacon and you know, it means every option you're getting
it all.
The works.
So I think this word is so versatile that we should maybe listen to some more examples.
The bridegroom was wearing a morning suit, top hat, gloves, the works.
He spent over $10,000 on his home theater system.
He got all the works.
I bought a new car with all the works, magnesium rims, custom paint and leather seats.
So now that we've seen the works on the home theater system, he needs to hook it up.
So this is an important part and a very exciting part of a new purchase.
So when you buy something, you have to hook it up.
That means you have to plug things together.
So we plug things into the wall for electricity, but also hook up maybe those, those cores
you were talking about earlier, that HDMI connector, that's called hooking up or connecting.
So you would hook up your DVD player to your television.
I could ask you, did you hook up those new speakers to your big TV yesterday?
So to connect, it's another way of saying to connect.
And finally, the, the big event when you're buying something is the end when you have
to actually pay.
And this guy's a little bit worried that the things he wants cost a lot of money.
So he asks a really great question.
He said, how much will this set me back?
This sounds a little weird at first, because you could just say, how much will this cost?
But he's speaking in a very colloquial way, very familiar.
And he says, how much will this set me back?
So how much will this cost me?
So how much am I actually going to spend?
So it's just a different way of saying how much does it cost?
But it's like you say, more colloquial.
It's a lot more native-like.
And so if you're writing your paper, you don't want to write this, this will set you back
$500 in economics.
But we'd say this in spoken language in our normal daily lives with friends.
So why don't we listen to a couple more examples of set me back.
This unexpected expense is going to set us back a couple thousand dollars.
That fancy dinner at the restaurant last night really set us back.
I feel guilty about buying this coat.
It set me back over $300.
So now that we've taken a look at those great phrases and with some good examples, why don't
we listen to this dialogue one last time.
It's a 46 inch HT TV screen and it has all the works.
Three HDMI connectors, USB, VGA and S video ports.
This is without a doubt, the complete home theater experience.
Okay, so a big TV, I think, I don't know, I think it's just a great thing to have at
home.
Not to, you know, spend too much time in front of the TV but it's good to sit down and watch
a movie.
It's nice because now there's so many different things you can do with it.
You can hook up your computer, you can buy a projector, you can play your PS3 or your
Wii.
So I think there's a lot to do and it's just wonderful how great graphics have come in
just like the last five years.
What do you think about having a television set, for example, in the bathroom?
I would say it's a really bad idea but I think, well, if I have a bathtub, I think it would
be really cool.
What about, you know, some people don't like having a television set in their bedroom.
I agree with this.
I agree.
Because I think it's really important that you have peace and quiet in your bedroom because
it's kind of like, for me, it's an important space where I can just relax and be quiet
and I like reading a lot so if I have a TV, maybe I'll watch more TV but I'd much rather
read a book before bed.
Yeah, I definitely agree but, you know, I've seen people that have TVs in their living
rooms, in their dining rooms, even in their kitchen so they're watching something while
they're cooking and even in the bathroom.
Like you say, in a bathtub, well, it's nice but some of them I've seen in front of the
toilet or something.
I would say that the one in the kitchen is nice because if you spend a lot of time in
the kitchen, you can watch the news while you're cooking or you can actually watch
cooking shows and try and practice.
Or soap operas.
So I guess it depends on the person.
It depends on how much you watch TV.
But I'm curious to know what our listeners have to say about TVs and big electronics
purchases.
So come to our website EnglishPod.com.
If you have any questions or any doubts regarding the lesson or any suggestions, you can let
us know.
Otherwise, we'll be there to just talk and practice that English and of course send us
your suggestions for future lessons.
We love to know what you're interested in learning about.
Take care.
Welcome back to another lesson here at EnglishPod.
Today, Marco, what are we talking about?
Well, today we are not really in the best mood.
We're kind of sad.
We're kind of nervous.
We're not feeling very well.
It's a cloudy day.
Maybe that's why.
The blues.
So, yeah, that's what we're talking about today.
We're going to have a lot of different descriptive words to express maybe feeling sad or maybe
you're angry or you're nervous or something like that.
Well, this is a very useful lesson.
Hopefully, you're not feeling this way.
But if you have to talk about someone who is, I've got lots of words for you.
But first, we're going to preview a couple in today's vocabulary preview.
So, today on vocabulary preview, we're going to look at two words.
And the first one is a way of saying that you feel sad.
So, basically, I'm feeling down.
Down.
You might have heard this before because it's the opposite of the word up.
So, you're not feeling up happy looking up.
You're feeling down.
This is another word for sad like Marco said.
Or you can also say I'm a bit down today, right?
Yeah, I'm a bit down today.
Or you look really down.
So, you look sad.
Are you... is everything okay?
So, down.
So, now another feeling or a way that a person is feeling, maybe that person is grouchy.
Would you please stop talking so loud, Marco?
I think you have...
No, I'm seriously.
Don't be grouchy, Kathryn.
So, grouchy is a way someone acts, usually when they're in a bad mood.
So, it's not like really angry.
You're not angry, but you're not very happy either.
And you're not very nice to people.
So, there's a very famous TV character called Oscar the Grouch on Sesame Street.
Look for him on YouTube or Youku.
And he's very, very good for learning about this feeling, grouchy, because he's a grouchy
guy.
Yeah, he's always angry or never happy, basically.
He's always complaining about something.
So, that word again is grouchy.
So, after taking a look at these two words, we're ready now to listen to our dialogue
for the first time.
Let's see what this dialogue is about, if maybe they're grouchy or maybe just sad.
I'll talk to you later.
Carrie, are you okay?
You seem a bit down.
I just got off the phone with my boyfriend.
He's always getting upset and losing his temper over nothing.
It's so hard to talk to him at times.
Maybe it's just that he's stressed out from working or something.
He does have a pretty nerve-wracking job, you know.
Yeah, but he's always in a really foul mood.
I try to find out what's bothering him or get him to talk about his day, but he always
shuts down and brushes me off.
Men are like that, you know.
They can feel nervous, anxious, or on edge, and the only way they can express it is by
trying to hide it through aggressiveness.
I guess you're right.
What do you think I should do?
He wasn't always this grouchy, you know.
Talk to him.
Cheer him up when he's down, and if that doesn't work, I say get rid of him and get a new one.
You are something else, you know that?
Alright so two girls talking about guys.
I guess guys have a bad temper sometimes, right?
I think anyone can have a bad temper, but we're talking today about the boyfriend of
one of these girls who has a very bad temper and has been very grouchy recently.
And that's why she's feeling a bit down.
So let's take a look at those words now in Language Takeaway.
Language Takeaway Alright so in today's Language Takeaway,
we've got some wonderful words for you.
Words that are very good for describing stress or having anxiety.
The first of these words is something you hear all the time, especially with young people.
Right, somebody is stressed out.
Oh my gosh, Marco, I'm so stressed out.
I have ten homework assignments to do and softball practice and my mom wants me to help
cook dinner tonight.
You really are stressed out.
I am stressed out.
I don't have any homework and I don't live with my mom.
But being stressed out is usually something you feel when you have too much stuff to do.
So maybe you can be stressed out because of school, like in your case, or maybe at work
you have a lot of things to do or a project to finish, right?
Exactly and I just want to point out here that you can say I'm stressed or I'm feeling
stressed but commonly in spoken English, so when you're talking to your friends, you hear
this much more often, stressed out.
Stressed out, he's really stressed out lately.
So we're stressed out or another word that kind of means the same is this is nerve-wracking.
Nerve-wracking, so nerves are those things in our body that help us feel things, right?
And so something that racks our nerves makes us very, very tense, very anxious, very uncomfortable.
Okay, so it makes you very nervous.
Right, so there are some movies that are nerve-wracking.
For example, suspense movies like Hitchcock's movies like Psycho or The Birds.
Like Horror, like maybe Saw.
Nerve-wracking, also some people think that roller coasters are nerve-wracking.
They're very, very anxious when they ride roller coasters.
Right, so let's listen to a couple of more examples of in different situations where
we can use this phrase nerve-wracking.
I think being a doctor is one of the most nerve-wracking jobs in the world.
Skydiving was one of the most nerve-wracking experiences of my life.
I almost had a heart attack.
The final match between Brazil and Italy was incredibly nerve-wracking.
And there's another way to describe this feeling.
Again, it's a little bit different but very, very similar.
We can say someone is feeling on edge.
On edge.
So this person was feeling on edge, but what does that mean exactly?
You're like at the edge?
Why do you have to ask so many questions?
Okay, listen.
This is basic.
Okay, Marco?
All right, all right.
Are you mocking me?
I'm on edge today.
So someone who is on edge is easily angered, right?
So it's very easy to make this person upset or angry.
Someone who just quit smoking might be on edge.
That means it's very, very easy to get them to be upset.
So yeah, you are on edge, right?
He's on edge or he seems on edge, doesn't he?
Wow, these three words that we've just looked at are really interesting and very, very useful.
I guess you can describe many different situations or a person that's going through these feelings,
I think there is a thousand ways to describe being nervous or anxious or upset.
So maybe we should take another listen to today's dialogue and figure out how exactly
we use these words and we come back.
We'll be talking about some other phrases that are useful.
Okay, I'll talk to you later.
He does have a pretty nerve wracking job, you know.
They can feel nervous, anxious or on edge.
And the only way they can express it is by trying to hide it through aggressiveness.
He wasn't always as grouchy, you know.
Talk to him, try to cheer him up when he's down.
If that doesn't work, I say get rid of him and get a new one.
You are something else, you know that.
So now that we're back, we can start with a couple of different phrases now on Fluency
So, Marco, here's the big question.
What makes you lose your temper?
I think what makes me lose my temper very, very easily is like a dirty house or like
a dirty room.
You're a neat freak.
Not really neat freak, but like if it's not at least semi-clean, you know, it really bothers
So this great phrase, lose your temper or lose one's temper is a phrase we use in English
to describe getting angry.
So maybe you're okay.
You're frustrated with something, but someone does something like throws all of their clothes
on the floor and Marco here says, that's it.
I'm tired of this.
You're always throwing your clothes on the floor.
And that's an example of Marco losing his temper.
You hear this?
Oh, drilling, construction, hammering.
When people tap, tap, tap, tap, tap, tap, tap, or when they like stomp their feet, feet,
feet.
Like when they're nervous.
When they make noise, yeah.
So slowly it's like, okay, fine.
No, seriously, stop it.
And then all of a sudden, I just can't stand it anymore.
You explode.
So, all right.
So that's what makes you lose your temper.
I'll be sure to keep my eye out for that.
Please don't.
You lose your temper and now there are situations sometimes where you need to brush someone off.
Or when you get brushed off and that's not very good feeling.
But this phrase, to brush someone off, you've heard the word brush before.
It's the word that we use to, you know, brush your hair or brush your teeth.
When you brush someone off, it's like saying that you're ignoring them.
So you ignore them or you basically tell them to go away very subtly sometimes or very directly.
And so to brush someone off is to avoid their company.
And so a lot of times when people are angry, they like to be alone.
So they brush you off.
I could say, hey, did you want to go see that movie tonight?
Oh, no, I can't.
I have to do something tonight.
And then Marco walks away while we're talking.
He's brushing me off.
He's ignoring me.
So it happens.
And also maybe some people can make up excuses and that's also brushing someone off.
So to brush someone off or he brushed me off doesn't feel good.
And well, all of these, all of these bad feelings, brushing somebody off, maybe you feel stressed
out in the end, you always need a good friend to cheer you up.
And that's what this dialogue is all about.
And so friends are actually the people that do that the best or family, I think.
And well, we can break this phrase down because most of it's pretty clear, but cheer might
be a new word for some of our listeners.
Maybe we've heard of the term cheerleader, you know, like give me an A, give me a B.
So cheer or people cheering or cheers when the beer.
So cheer is like happiness.
So someone who can cheer you up is someone who makes you happy.
Remember that down we had earlier, I'm feeling down.
We're trying to cheer someone up.
We're trying to make them go up and be happy.
So you want to cheer up your friends or maybe if you're feeling a bit down, a family member
will try and cheer you up.
Do you need someone to cheer you up, Marco?
Yes, I do.
Let's go have a drink and eat some popcorn and be cheered up.
That's what cheers me up or chocolate always cheers me up.
Oh, I know there's some of that.
So we've taken a look at a lot of great phrases, but the last sentence of the dialogue is maybe
a little bit strange, right?
When she says, you are something else.
You know that?
Something what?
Is she a monkey?
What does she mean when she says you are something else?
That's a great question.
Well, this might be a little bit hard to understand at first, but she's saying, I can't believe
She's like, there's no one like you.
You're really something else.
It's kind of like a joke, but what she's saying is, I can't believe you.
You just want to go on and encourage me to find another boy.
You're unbelievable.
So it could be, is it on the positive note or can it be both positive and negative?
Well, here we've got two friends who are using it, so it's a positive note, but she's kind
of making fun of her saying, I can't believe you.
But it can be negative.
It can be more negative.
Like if you're fighting with her boyfriend and her boyfriend cheats on her and she's
like, you're really something else.
It's like, there's no comparison.
You're the worst.
So yeah, it really depends on how this is used and what the tone of voice is, so how
someone says it.
But in this case, I think it's kind of a joke, but it's the positive.
It's very spoken English, as you say, because all the words that we see there, they're pretty
simple, but the context or the connotation, the meaning is very, very different from the
actual words.
So let's listen to this dialogue for the last time and then we'll come back and talk a little
Maybe it's just that he's stressed out all the time.
Sorry I didn't catch it.
It's crazy how he just doesn't sound as upset as he seems.
Like he just seems really stressed out from working or something.
He does have a pretty nerve wracking job you know?
Yeah but he's always in a really foul mood.
I tried to find out what's bothering him, or get to him to talk about his day, but he
always shuts down and brushes me off.
Men are like that you know.
They can feel nervous, anxious or on edge and the only way they can express it is by
I guess you're right. What do you think I should do? He wasn't always this grouchy, you know.
Talk to him. Try to cheer him up when he's down. And if that doesn't work, I say get rid of him and get a new one.
So, Catherine, are you a grouchy person? Are you happy? Do you have a bad temper?
Oh, these are, well, very interesting questions, Marco. Thank you for asking. No, the first time, am I grouchy? No, not very. Only before 9am.
You're not a morning person.
Not a morning person, so I'm very grouchy in the morning. But I'm generally pretty good about losing my temper. It doesn't happen very often.
But I do get frustrated with things like tapping or when people eat with their mouth open.
Oh, yeah, that's terrible. I hate that as well.
Yeah, I can't stand it.
Or I really don't like when people bite their nails. It also makes me lose my temper. I don't know. It more than makes me lose my temper, it's kind of annoying, right?
It is annoying. So what makes you really lose your temper? We say, what makes you blow your top? Think about a volcano.
Really grinds my gears. I would say the worst is when somebody lies to me, like straight in my face.
Like I know they're lying. I know you're lying and you still just lie straight at me.
I agree. So what's something that really cheers you up? Because we talked about like going out with a friend maybe helps you cheer up.
But is there one thing, some kind of remedy?
I actually like to go shopping when I'm feeling a bit sad.
Yeah. I mean, I won't buy anything like clothes or anything like that. Usually I'll get maybe something for somebody else or for the house or something. It's very strange.
Helps you like clear your mind.
Yeah, it's just like walking around and spending a little bit of money. I don't know. It's kind of a good remedy.
What about you? What cheers you up?
I kind of like to organize things.
Yeah. So if I'm really angry or really upset about something, I'll alphabetize all of my books.
Yeah. So A to Z.
Wow. See, everyone has different remedies. So come to our website, EnglishPodTalk.com. Tell us what makes you angry, what makes you lose your temper or what really cheers you up, what makes you happy.
Or who cheers you up. So tell us who is someone you like to talk to when you're upset and how do they cheer you up?
All right. We'll see you guys there. And also if you have questions, comments, suggestions, you can also leave them there in our comment section.
Please do that. So that's all for today. Goodbye, everyone.
Hello everyone, welcome back to another great lesson here at EnglishPod.
My name is Catherine.
And today we've got a great lesson for you at the upper intermediate level.
We're going to be talking about an interesting topic which is gambling.
Yeah, I don't know if you like to do this, Marco.
Go, you know, play some cards, play some poker, blackjack, throw the dice.
I'm actually a bit of a fan of the roulette.
You have to throw the ball onto the wheel that's spinning and it lands into like a
little compartment in a number.
So you can win like based on the number and the color.
But it's interesting because if you get the number right, it pays you 35 times your bet.
Wow, that's a lot of money to win.
A lot of potential there, but there's a lot of numbers on that wheel.
But that's the thing.
Some people like gambling, some people don't like it.
And in some countries, in some states, it's illegal, right?
So today we're talking about a city that's looking to legalize this sport.
So we're going to take a listen.
Here at One Time, when we come back, we're talking all about what's going on in today's
Did you hear?
The state is thinking of legalizing gambling in our city.
Soon we're going to have amazing hotels and casinos here, which will be good for business.
Gambling is a vice industry built on deception and fed by the intentional exploitation of
human weakness for the sole purpose of monetary gain.
It disgusts me.
How does it exploit people?
Well, to begin with, gambling is addictive.
It ruins marriages, destroys families and bankrupts communities.
Once you're addicted, it's very difficult to stop.
People have lost their houses, cars and have been left out on the street after becoming
addicted.
Secondly, it exploits because men become addicted to gambling most often because of the action
and risk.
Women gamble to escape and senior citizens will start gambling for social interaction.
Underage gamblers often start gambling on sports with friends and then illegal bookies.
Geez, now that I think about it, maybe legalizing gambling isn't such a good idea.
Although I have been to Las Vegas and I didn't become addicted or anything like that.
You cannot predict who will become addicted to gambling.
Now excuse me, I have a protest rally to organize.
All right, so a very strong opinions against gambling, right?
So we've got someone who hasn't really thought it through and another person who has thought
way too much about what's going on.
And well, he did point out some very interesting arguments against gambling.
And so we're going to take a look at some of the language that person used today in
Well, this first one we've got here is a word that has to do with the topic of today's lesson.
So legalizing gambling.
What does it mean to legalize?
So to legalize, to make it legal.
So legal is the word that refers to law.
And so that means to make something okay.
It means to allow something in a state or country.
In many countries, it's illegal to gamble.
So in this case, the city is looking to legalize it to make it legal.
So many young people in America would like to see this law changed.
You're not allowed to drink until you're 21 years old, drink alcohol that is.
So they would like to see the legalization of underage drinking.
Now is it 21 in all states or in the majority?
Yes, all states.
I thought it was only in some of them.
No, it changed in the late 70s, I think.
But you absolutely cannot drink until you're 21.
Is that okay or is that?
I think that it encourages young people to drink irresponsibly.
And so I believe we should legalize drinking at the age of 18 because it would make people
learn how to be more responsible.
So we want to legalize underage drinking.
English fun.
No, let's not manipulate my words.
This next word is very, very important.
He's saying that gambling or the gambling industry exploits people.
Okay, exploit.
You might have heard this in the news before.
We talk about often in the news, the exploitation of people.
But in this case, we're talking about exploiting people through money and gambling.
So to exploit basically is to take advantage of them.
To use them for something.
Not to treat them as people, but to use them as a way to get something.
And we often hear about it, as you say, in news about, you know, factories or companies
exploiting their employees or something of the sort.
We can also exploit the earth for its resources by taking oil and taking diamonds and taking
gold.
So to take advantage of.
So to exploit is the verb, but exploitation is the noun.
That's the thing.
So we talk about the exploitation of people in this country or the exploitation of the
earth.
And they're talking about how gambling exploits people and how it's a vice.
Ooh, vices.
So for those of you Christians out there, you might be very familiar with the sins,
The seven deadly sins.
Well, these are all vices, things that you do that are bad.
So drinking too much is a vice.
Or eating too much, right?
Or spending money without having money may be a vice for you.
So addictions are also a type of vice, right?
Like drinking, smoking, or drug abuse.
These are all vices.
So vice is a bad thing.
Now, we may remember this show, popular American show called Miami Vice.
Ooh, well, Miami Vice, it's in the city of Miami and it's about police officers.
So in the police, there's sometimes a group called the vice squad.
These are people who go out and try and stop people who are doing things that are vices.
Like drugs and gambling and stuff like that.
Vice squad.
So in the language takeover, we have this interesting word, a bookie.
So if any of you like to go to the horse races, you might be familiar with this one.
A bookie is someone who helps you make a bet.
It's his job to help you make a bet.
So we often see it in movies.
Maybe you are betting on a sports competition, right?
And you are betting, I don't know, $10 against this team.
So you would go to a bookie to place your bet because there's not really any legal place
where you can do it.
So you want to say, okay, tonight the Chicago Bulls are playing the Suns and you want to
put $100 on the Chicago Bulls.
That means they're going to win.
So you use a bookie and he helps you put the money down.
Now usually this is illegal, right?
Generally it's illegal.
It depends.
I guess you can go to a bookie at the horse races and it's illegal.
But generally it's illegal, I think.
So a sports bookie, we would say a sports bookie, right?
Interesting words.
So they're just related to, as we said, addictions and vices, but that's, I guess, kind of what
the whole gambling industry involves, right?
So now that we've seen those great words on Language Takeaway, let's move on now to Fluency
Fluency Builder is where we get into some of this really exciting stuff, stuff where
we hear some opinions from a person who is not very happy with the gambling industry.
So this first one, gambling is an industry built on deception.
So it's built on deception.
So well, it's an industry, so it's not really tangible.
So this is a metaphor.
It's like saying that this industry is dependent on something.
And what is it dependent on?
Deception.
So what's deception?
So to deceive, right?
That comes from the verb deceive, which basically says like a false appearance, right?
Not really being completely truthful.
This is really good.
So a lot of movies that we like to watch or theater is based on deception in a good way
because you get the idea that something is a certain way, but it really isn't in real
life.
So deception is in the theater, maybe a good thing, but in general, deception is a bad
I could say, Marco, I'm sorry I deceived you.
You lied to me.
I lied to you.
So deception usually involves lies or trying to make something seem like something that
it's not.
So it's this industry is built on deception.
And he said that the sole purpose of this industry is to make money.
So this, this phrase sole purpose is very, very common.
You hear this a lot.
Soul, like the soul, like your human soul, like your human soul is spelled differently.
S O L E.
So you're talking about the one thing.
One and only.
I only have one love.
I only have one love, my sole pair of shoes.
I only have one pair of shoes.
So it's one thing, but the sole purpose.
So the only reason that this industry exists is what?
For monetary gain.
So monetary, you might have heard of the international monetary fund.
The IMF.
And so monetary refers to money.
As the door said, it's a gas.
And the gain, which means basically means making it to get more money.
So that's the point that this person is making that, that the sole purpose of the gambling
industry is to make money.
Ouch.
So he's saying there's no other reason to gamble.
People are in this industry just to make money.
It's greedy.
Well, I mean, basically you could probably say that almost about almost all the companies,
What about education companies like ours?
That's different.
Education is very different.
So what's another industry that has a sole purpose?
For example, nonprofit organizations, their sole purpose is to help people.
I can get into that.
So sole purpose and monetary gain.
Very useful phrases.
But let's take another listen to today's dialogue and put to you some of these great,
great new words.
People have lost their houses, cars and have been left on the street after becoming addicted.
Secondly, it exploits because men become addicted to gambling, most often because of the action
All right, so gambling, what are you, what are your opinions about it?
Pro gambling or anti gambling?
OK, well, here's the thing.
Gambling is a sport and it involves money, obviously, but people also don't, I don't
think should have other people telling them how to spend their money unless they have
some kind of problem.
So the law doesn't get involved if you have a drinking problem until you're harmful to
people around you.
So I don't think that it's right for the for the government to be able to say, listen,
you can't gamble because it's your own money.
If it makes you happy, it makes you happy.
Now we've seen very specific cities or places where you can actually gamble in this way.
You have Monaco or Las Vegas or Macau more recently.
So very interesting cities or countries that have been built on the gambling industry,
which apparently is a multi-billion dollar industry.
Are you against gambling?
Are you for gambling?
I mean, is it one of those things that you can really...
Or do you maybe even like it?
Maybe some people don't even really care for it.
They don't find it fun to play blackjack or go to the play a round of poker or something
Yeah, well, that's their problem.
I enjoy it.
I think it's fun.
I mean, as long as with anything, you do it in moderation.
That means you don't do it too much.
I think it's okay.
So listeners come to our website, EnglishPod.com to the comment section where you can tell
us, well, what are your opinions?
If you do like gambling, tell us what game you like.
So, and also if you have any questions or comments, we're always there to answer them,
It can be kind of a big issue to talk about because some people are really against it
and some people are really for it.
So curious to hear your opinion.
Yeah, we look forward to your opinions and we'll see you guys later.
See you guys.
My name is Marto.
And today we're talking about something very, very important in the computer age.
Internet.
Internet and internet connections.
I think, well, so many people use the internet now and have it, but it's sometimes a little
bit complicated to maybe get a plan or maybe if you're not too familiar with the terms,
that's what we're going to be looking at today.
So listen out for some of these words today.
We're talking on the phone with someone who's going to help us get a plan.
When we come back, we'll be talking all about what some of these words and phrases mean.
So if you're confused, just wait a couple seconds and we'll be back.
Welcome to Gallinet.
Hi, I would like to get an internet plan for my house.
We have three different plans with different prices you can choose from.
The first one is the cheapest, but most basic plan, which is $30 a month.
This is for broadband internet with a download speed of 512 kbps.
I have no idea what kbps means.
I just want to be able to get online, play games and chat with my friends.
Oh, and watch movies online as well.
Well, this connection might be a bit too slow for your needs.
I suggest you get the premium package for $50 a month, which includes a connection speed
of 2 megabytes.
That way, you can play games online without any lag.
This package also includes a wireless router and a personal firewall, absolutely free.
Do I have to pay an installation fee?
Lucky for you, this month we aren't charging our normal installation fee.
You're saving yourself $100 right there.
And we'll throw in this pen drive.
Awesome!
A lot of these are technical terms specifically for internet and computers and connection
and all that stuff.
Yeah, and the nice thing about some of these words is that they can be used in other ways
as well.
So, we're learning about these and expanding our vocabularies, but they're useful in many
other contexts as well.
Okay, so let's get started with these words now in Language Takeaway.
So this first phrase, for example, is something that you see advertised all the time and it's
a kind of internet connection.
Broadband internet.
Okay, so internet is pretty clear, but broadband, you might be asking, what the heck can this
mean?
Okay, so you have broad.
So broad means wide.
And a band is basically a frequency at which something works.
Like bandwidth.
Bandwidth, uh-huh.
So you have broadband, you have fast or high speed internet.
That means the bigger the space is, the more information can be transferred.
So it's a fast connection essentially.
Before broadband, we had dial-up internet.
Ooh.
Do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do.
Remember AOL?
It was so slow.
So you had to use your modem and call a number and then get connected by telephone.
So it was a dial-up connection, but it was so slow.
And every time it broke, the connection would break.
You had to dial-up again and go through the whole process.
It was so annoying.
So fortunately now, not many people use dial-up anymore and we have broadband internet.
Now if you have broadband internet, it's really convenient because you can download any type
of application or music, videos, et cetera.
So this is another key computer word that actually has a couple of different uses.
For example, as you said, you can download music or download photos.
That means you find a photo on the internet that you like and you could save it on your
computer.
But you can also have a download.
So it can be a thing too.
So if maybe you're downloading three different files, you have three downloads.
So to download and download.
So now with internet, you have different speeds as we talked about, right?
How fast you're downloading something.
And the guy mentioned 512 kbps.
Not another one of these kbps.
So this one, actually this was pretty simple.
You can think about kilobytes.
You've heard about megabytes, kilobytes.
This is a size.
How fast you can receive these packets of information.
So 512 kilobytes per second.
Per second, that's, I have no idea how much that is.
It's maybe a lot.
It sounds like a lot.
Well, basically it is a lot, but we saw later that he was asking for a connection speed
of two megabytes.
Oh, so mega is bigger than kpbs, right?
So these are different speeds of transferring information, right?
So this is a way for you to see what kind of internet plan you want.
And so we have kilobytes, we have megabytes, and basically you want a faster connection
speed because you want to avoid lag.
Ooh, lag.
This is a word that you can use in a lot of different ways.
For example, my brother always lags behind.
So it's a verb, but in this case we're talking about the noun.
So lag is slowness.
It's like a delay.
It's a delay in something.
So in this case, I can't even play my video games because there's too much lag.
So that means the internet's too slow.
Too slow.
So that's what happens when you have a slow connection speed, you have lag.
And as you can say, it refers to something that's slow or delayed.
So you can use it in other contexts when you want to say something is a little bit slow.
Well and another key thing here as we're talking about internet connections is the router.
So router is something that helps us to route an internet connection.
So for example.
So it basically distributes the internet connection to different computers or to different users.
And some of these you plug in and some of them are wireless.
That means without a wire.
So a wireless router is something, a little box in your house that allows you to maybe
have three or four computers on one broadband connection.
So it's very popular now.
You go to Starbucks and you have Wi-Fi.
In order to have Wi-Fi or wireless internet, you need a router, a wireless router.
So wireless router.
And finally, what is something that might get in the way of a connection?
You have a firewall.
Very important security measure when navigating the internet.
So personal firewall is a firewall that you have on your computer to keep people from
spying on you.
This keeps other people out.
So it's exactly that.
It's a wall between your computer and the outside world.
So it protects you from any type of maybe malicious intruders.
And oftentimes governments and public offices, things like that, law offices, they have firewalls
to protect the information that they store because it's so important that it's secretive.
So firewalls.
There are many different types of firewalls, but a personal firewall is just a basic one.
So that is our language takeaway for today.
Let's check out this dialogue again and slow it down a bit this time.
I would like to get an internet plan for my house.
I just want to be able to get online, play games, and chat with my friends.
You're saving yourself $100 right there, and we'll throw in this pen drive.
So we just heard all these words that we looked at before, but now why don't we take a look
at some of these phrases in Fluency Builder.
What's this first one?
I can't read it.
Well, didn't you write it down?
I have no idea what you're talking about.
Enough games.
Well, it's going to treat this as a phrase that gets said as is.
We're not going to take bits and pieces of it.
So I have no idea, or he has no idea, is a way to say, listen.
The guy was talking about KBPS and all these things, and the other guy was like, I have
no idea what you're talking about.
I don't understand.
And I can definitely empathize.
You can relate.
Well, we'll leave that for another one.
But after this, we've got bucks.
So bucks.
Is this slang?
Bucks.
A hundred bucks.
Two hundred bucks.
A lot of money.
So bucks is basically another way of saying dollars.
So this is a way for...
Well, this is a way that most Americans talk about money.
It's one buck is one US dollar.
So can I borrow 10 bucks, Marco?
There you go.
Now, bucks, you can only use it for American currency, right?
You can't use it for like euros or...
I mean, I wouldn't say like 10 euros would be 10 bucks.
Usually, you say this about American dollars and you say this just when you're hanging
out or how much does this cost?
Oh, five bucks.
So the guy was telling him about the price of the internet and everything.
And he said that he's going to throw in a pen drive, right?
He's going to throw it?
He's going to throw it at him.
No, he's going to throw in a pen drive for free.
Oh, sweet.
So throw in means to add.
Or include.
Include.
So, listen.
Sir, here's your large popcorn and I'm going to throw in a small diet Coke for free.
How generous of me.
So you throw in something, you include it for free, right?
So this is usually a complimentary item.
I think this word is really interesting or this phrase.
So why don't we listen to a couple of other examples using throw in.
If you buy two pizzas, we will throw in another one for free.
Tell you what.
I'll buy this computer if you throw in a pair of headphones.
Deal?
The salesman threw in a subscription to the local newspaper for buying his product.
Isn't that great?
So good examples.
I think it's clear now.
The phrases, all these words related to the internet.
And so useful.
So why don't we listen to this dialogue for the last time and then we'll come back and
The first one is the cheapest but most basic plan, which is $30 a month.
You are saving yourself $100 right there.
So the internet is a big deal nowadays and now you can do so much on it.
Not only navigate websites anymore, but watch movies, download applications, photos, Facebook,
all this type of things now you can do on the internet.
You can even do it from your phone, like when you're in the bathroom or on the train.
I mean, it's scary.
We're always connected.
So it's interesting.
You're always connected.
You're always online with people.
And it's actually very noticeable when you maybe live somewhere else.
Before you used to have to write letters.
I don't think many people receive handwritten letters anymore.
Never.
I'm speaking for myself.
I never receive.
And I don't write them either.
So I guess I'm guilty of it.
So now people just send emails.
Obviously it's more convenient, but maybe it's a little bit less significant maybe than
actually going to the post office or taking the time to write a letter, going to the post
office and stuff.
I mean, there's something nice about having a physical thing you can hold on to, but I
wonder if one day we're going to forget how to write.
You know, like write with a pen.
With a pen and pencil.
We're going to have these little PDAs and these little iPhones and they're going to
just, you're going to talk and they're going to take everything down in note form for you.
Well, now it's kind of happening with the Kindle, right?
Now you can have books on this electronic device that lets you read through them.
You can carry a hundred books with you to the beach.
So now you don't even really need physical books, which is good on some level because
you know, you're saving trees and space and all that stuff.
But there's something physical about reading a book.
You hold it, you flip the pages, you know how many pages you have left.
We'll see.
Maybe I'll be a convert one day, but for now I'm good with paper books.
So what do you guys think about the internet, about electronic books?
You can also tell us any problems or confusion you have with the things that we talked about
Hopefully everything is clear, but if not, we are here to answer your questions.
We like to do so.
Goodbye everyone.
What do you got, Catherine, for us today?
That's a good question.
Well, we've got a little bit of a Seinfeld situation.
So, for those of you who are not familiar with this American TV show, which, by the
way, is one of my favorites, Seinfeld is a TV show, a comedy, about very awkward, very
common situations that are taken to the extreme.
So, it's a very popular show.
It was around for like 10 years, I think.
But it's not airing anymore.
Well, they're not making new episodes anymore.
No, you have to see them in reruns.
Reruns, right.
So, we have a situation that's very common and it was pretty funny on the show.
It's a guy trying to rent a car.
Okay, so he's probably at the airport or traveling and he's had a long flight and he wants to
rent a car, but of course, there are some problems.
So, this is an elementary level lesson, by the way.
So keep that in mind as we listen to this dialogue one time.
Hi, I made a reservation for a mid-size vehicle.
The name is Jimmy Fox.
I'm sorry, we have no mid-size available at the moment.
I made a reservation.
Do you have my reservation?
Unfortunately, we ran out of cars.
But the reservation keeps the car here.
That's why you have the reservation.
I know why we have reservations.
I don't think you do.
If you did, I'd have a car.
See, you know how to take the reservation.
You just don't know how to hold the reservation and that's really the most important part
of the reservation, the holding.
Anybody can just take them.
But we do have a compact or an SUV if you'd like.
I'll take the compact.
We have a blue Ford Focus for you, Mr. Fox.
Would you like insurance?
Yeah, you better give me the insurance because I'm going to beat the hell out of this car.
So this actually happens a lot.
You make a reservation and either they lose it or they run out of cars.
It's such a common situation.
And it's not just cars.
Sometimes this happens at restaurants too and it really makes me angry.
Yeah, that happens a lot.
You show up and they're like, oh, we don't have a reservation.
And you're just like...
Well, then you have to keep yourself in check.
You can't really get angry.
But this guy does.
So let's take a look at the language takeaway to find out what are some of the words we're
using here to describe renting a car and what kind of car we're talking about.
Well, as you mentioned, at rental places, they have different size cars, right?
Different size vehicles.
Which, by the way, costs different prices.
So let's take a look at the sizes that they mentioned in dialogue.
Starting with the cheapest one, the least expensive and the smallest, it's a compact
vehicle.
All right, compact.
So compact actually means small.
Small.
So compact car, you're going to hear very often.
Even if you're buying a car, let's think of an...
What's a compact car?
The VW Golf is a compact car, very small car.
So usually it's two doors or if it's a four door car, it's very small, not very long,
So maybe like a Ford Focus could be a small car, a compact.
Now moving up in size a little bit, we would have a midsize vehicle.
Okay, midsize vehicle is...
Well, it's a giveaway here because mid means middle.
So it's kind of in the middle between the small and the large.
And this is your average four door sedan car.
So as an example, you would have a Ford Taurus or maybe a Toyota Camry.
Yeah, Toyota Camry is maybe the most common car.
It's kind of expensive, but it's still midsize, right?
And now a bigger car and probably one of the most popular cars in the United States is
an SUV.
Not anymore, Marco.
Yeah, the energy crisis and the...
Gas prices.
Well, and the economy as well.
People are not driving their SUVs anymore.
But SUV is an acronym.
That means it stands for three different words.
S meaning...
Sports.
U meaning...
Utility.
V...
So SUV, sport utility vehicle, means it can go maybe off-road.
So an example of this would be a Ford Explorer or...
Jeep Cherokee.
A Jeep Cherokee could be an SUV as well.
Those are three different types of cars.
Now obviously there are many more like a van or a...
A limo.
A limo, like a limousine.
But yeah, these are the most common ones that you would rent at a car rental place.
But what we have to do here is make a reservation.
Now interesting, you make a reservation.
Yeah, you don't have it.
You don't do it.
You don't...
You make it.
Yeah, you make...
These are words that go together.
So we're going to keep them together.
I can call a restaurant.
So say for example, Marco works at a restaurant.
I say, hello, I'd like to make a reservation for tonight.
Now if you show up at the restaurant, you say...
Where's my table?
And of course I throw a fit because there's no table for me.
So you make a reservation and in this case it was made before.
Okay, so you make a reservation.
Now why was this guy angry at the rental car place?
Oh, long story short, the company ran out of cars.
Not all cars, just the car that he wanted, the mid-size vehicle.
So they ran out.
So that doesn't mean they're actually running somewhere.
No, they're not putting on their running shoes and going for a jog.
Now in this case, to run out or in this case, we ran out means that they don't have any
You don't have any more.
So, I think it is a nice word for us to take a look at some other examples now.
We're going to run out of gasoline.
We need to find a gas station soon.
Can you buy some milk on your way home?
We ran out last night.
My pen ran out of ink.
Can you lend me one, please?
Not a fun phrase, but an important one in case you're ever in a restaurant or in a hotel
or in a place where you can purchase something or rent something and it's all gone.
So, I think we've taken a look at a lot of great words here.
We're going to slow it down just a little bit and then we'll come back and explain some
We have no mid-size available at the moment.
You just don't know how to hold the reservation.
And that's really the most important part of the reservation, the holding.
So, Marco, we've got a couple of phrases here that deserve some attention.
So let's take a look at them in today's Fluency Builder.
So, the first phrase that I want to take a look at is when the agent says, I'm sorry,
we have no mid-size available at the moment.
So do they or do they not have any?
She says, we have no mid-size.
So another way to say this is, we haven't got any.
Or we don't have any.
But in this case, you can just simplify it and say, we have no.
Why wouldn't you say we have none?
Because we need a thing here.
We have no cars.
We have no cake.
We have no food.
So this is a very common phrase in English.
And remember to put the thing at the end.
So for example, can I say, I have no money?
I'm so sorry, Marco, but I'm not going to lend you any.
I have no money.
Seriously, lend me some money.
So we have no.
This is interesting because this is not a structure that is usually learned through
textbooks, right?
You usually say, I don't have or we haven't got.
This is very spoken because you would never say, I go no.
We're not knowing that we, that has an object, something that we have.
So here, I have no is very spoken, very common.
It's got another phrase that is also not taught so much in those textbooks that we were just
mentioning.
So what's that phrase at the end?
Well, well.
It's a threat.
The guy is so angry.
He leans over the counter and he points his finger in the agent's face.
And what does he say?
He says, yeah, you better give me the insurance.
You better.
So you better than me.
It's not like better, like something is good, right?
You'd better is like a suggestion, but a very strong one.
This is a threat.
You better eat your dinner or I'm going to send you to your room.
So as you can see, it says, he says, you better, you better give me the insurance.
But the grammatically correct way would be.
You had better.
So the contraction would be you'd better.
You'd, you had better do this.
So this is a, it's a hypothetical situation.
You had better do this.
If you don't do this, bad things will happen.
So remember that here we've got the grammatically correct form that you should write.
You'd better or the spoken form.
I think in this one, we should also listen to some other examples to get a better idea
of how we can use this very strong suggestion.
You better go to the doctor before that cold gets any worse.
It's dangerous to go out this late.
She better change her attitude or her boss is going to fire her.
So what is the threat?
You better give me insurance because what is he going to do?
He says, I'm going to beat the hell out of this car.
Okay, so this is future.
I'm going to, I'm gonna.
Beat the hell out of this car.
So this is very strong, right?
Yeah, it's very strong.
And he's saying he is going to destroy the car.
So beat the hell out of.
That means really just do damage to something.
So you can use it towards a person also.
It's like, I'm going to beat the hell out of you.
And I'll arrest you for violence.
So it's a very strong phrase.
It shows anger.
It shows that you are threatening somebody.
So it's not, obviously it's not polite.
And it might get you a broken nose in a bar if you ever say this to someone or about someone.
So be very careful.
But you can use it to describe a situation, right?
It's like, yeah, we went to a bar yesterday and Dan beat the hell out of the bartender.
So instead of just saying Dan hit the bartender or Dan got into a fight, you're saying he
hit him and he just.
And he kept hitting him and kept hitting him and kept hitting him.
So yeah, he beat the hell out of him.
So those are the phrases and words that we wanted to talk about today.
But I think it'd be good if we listen to this dialogue one more time just to get a good
feel for it.
When we come back, we'll be talking a little bit more about the process of renting a car.
Hi, I made a reservation for a midsize vehicle.
I'm sorry, we have no midsize available at the moment.
And that's really the most important part of the reservation.
The holding.
Fine, I'll take the compact.
You know, I heard that in Florida or in certain like cities of California and Florida, you
can actually rent luxury cars.
Oh, yeah, you can do that in most places.
You can rent like a Porsche or a Lamborghini or a Ferrari.
Yeah, obviously it costs a lot of money, but it gives you the opportunity to maybe drive
one of these cars that you obviously wouldn't have the money to buy.
Yeah, especially if you're talking about those warm places like Florida, California, you
want to be in the sunshine, you get a convertible.
You got to get a convertible.
Yeah, so I think the insurance premiums on those particular cars are very high though.
So you're not only paying for the car, but you're also paying for the insurance and possibly
the speeding tickets.
I can't imagine renting one of those cars and not getting a speeding ticket.
So if any of you out there have experience renting cars or you have some questions about
the specifics that are involved in this process, let us know on our website, EnglishPod.com.
We'll be happy to answer any questions or doubts and we'll see you guys there.
Until next time, everyone.
Thanks for listening to EnglishPod.
Hello everyone, welcome to EnglishPod.
Hi guys, my name is Catherine.
And today we're going to be looking at another lesson as part of our sports series and this
time, well it's a debate.
Is it a game or is it a sport?
Oh, it's a sport.
You have to work your mind.
Yeah, so we're looking at chess, a very old, very popular sport, very difficult to play
It takes a lot of practice and believe me, it's frustrating at the beginning and I'm
still kind of in the beginning and intermediate stages.
But yeah, it takes a lot of practice and it takes a lot of time to familiarize yourself
with the rules.
So we're going to be learning a little bit more about the pieces and the rules today.
So we're not going to preview anything.
Let's listen to the dialogue for the first time and then we'll come back and talk about
the sport.
Bobby, come here.
Look what I got you.
A chess board.
Daddy's going to teach you how to play.
Each player gets 16 pieces.
You can be the white ones and I'll play with the black pieces.
Now in the front, you set up the pawns.
Those are the least viable pieces and can only move one space forward.
When you're about to capture another piece, it can move one space diagonally.
What about all these other pieces?
See this one?
It looks like a tower.
It's called the rook.
The one with the tall hat is called the bishop.
See this little horsey?
This is called the knight.
It's a very important piece, so it's best not to let your opponent capture it.
And these two?
They are husband and wife.
That's the queen and that's the king.
If the other player captures your king, he will say, checkmate, and the game is over.
Doesn't this sound fun?
Nah, this sounds boring.
I'm going to go play Killer Zombies on my PlayStation.
So the kid is obviously not very interested in learning how to play chess.
Not at all.
You know, the arts of these kind of slower games might be replaced very soon by video
games.
It doesn't really appeal to a little nine-year-old or ten-year-old instead of, you know, playing
something like this versus, yeah, shooting.
But it's a very great game.
It's very difficult, like we mentioned.
So we're going to look at the name of the pieces and the rules that are related to these
pieces in Language Takeaway.
Well, the first one you might have heard before because this is a word that is often used
in strategy in general.
So the word pawn.
A pawn.
A pawn usually means something that is not very important that you can use to distract
an opponent.
So on the chessboard, you have eight pawns.
So these are the ones that you have the most, but their movement is very limited.
So they can only move two spaces forward on the first move, right?
Or one space after that.
One space forward.
And only when it's going to capture another piece can it move diagonally.
So you can't just go diagonally.
You have to go forward until you're going to take another person's piece to capture
it and to go diagonally.
But a pawn is funny.
You can also use this word when you're talking about other things like, he used her as a
pawn in his little game.
So you want to make an analogy.
You want to make a comparison from life to these games.
You can use the word pawn.
Pawn.
So let's go to the other pieces on the chessboard.
On the very far ends of the board, you have the rook.
You've got two of these and they kind of look like towers from a castle.
And it's a very, well, they're very important pieces and actually my favorite pieces because
they're not very important at the beginning of a game, but at the end of a game, boom,
boom, boom, you can do a lot of damage because they can go anywhere in straight lines.
So they can go forward, backwards, and to the sides, as many spaces as they want.
The whole board.
So easy, easy pieces to forget about at the beginning, but they're very important.
And now next to the rook, we have the bishop.
This is very different from the rook because the bishop can also go anywhere, but they
can only go diagonally.
So only diagonally.
They can also move four directions, but diagonally, right?
So you can go forward and backward, but it has to be in a diagonal slanted line.
And now next to the bishop, we have the knight.
Ooh, the knight.
So he's the one galloping on the horse, like those old stories of King Arthur we used to
hear.
But the knight can go in an L shape and I've never understood this, but.
It's weird.
So it can move two spaces forward and then one to the right or one to the left, or it
can move two spaces to the right and then one forward.
So it's very strange, but it always has to move three spaces and in the shape of an L.
So I thought maybe he was the drunken piece.
He can go forward a little bit, then he kind of moves to the side.
So that's the knight.
It's actually a very, very important piece as well.
And now the two main pieces maybe of the chessboard, the queen and king.
So the king is kind of sad.
He can only move one space, but the queen is really the killer because she can do anything
she wants.
This is interesting, right?
Why do they make it like that?
The queen can move as many spaces as she wants in any direction, while the king can do the
same in any direction he wants, but only one space.
I think there's some similarity between real life now.
It's like the queen can do anything she wants and the king can kind of do whatever he wants.
Well maybe it has to do with the fact that he has to stay put and represent the country
and she can move around and move behind the scenes and has a little bit more mobility.
But in the end, the most important piece is the king, right?
Once the king is captured, the game is over.
So let's listen to today's dialogue one more time and slow it down a bit and find out if
the boy understood any of these rules.
A chessboard.
See this one that looks like a tower?
Nah.
This sounds boring.
And now why don't we explain a couple of these phrases that we also use to explain the pieces.
But let's look at some of these more in depth now in Fluency Builder.
So, Marco, one of the first phrases that we heard was the phrase to move diagonally or a diagonal line.
So, the pawns can sometimes do this and the bishop can do this, but what does it mean to move diagonally?
Okay, so basically a diagonal line is not a line that goes straight up, right?
Straight up to the sky, for example, or to the side, right?
It goes at an angle, so it's maybe going at 45 degrees or 30 degrees, so that's a diagonal movement or a diagonal line.
The next phrase we have is very strange, and this one you might hear from parents or children.
It says a little horsey.
Little horsey.
So, in many languages we have ways of breaking down words or adding to words to make them sound cuter, and this is one of those cases.
So, for example, little puppy or little kitty or kitten, these are words to make things sound cuter.
So, in this case, horse becomes horsey.
Horsey.
So, I want to ride the horsey.
It's a cute way of saying I want to ride the cute horse.
Mommy, mommy, I want to ride the horsey.
So, baby talk often involves having these rhyming words.
Mommy, horsey, doggy, puppy.
A doggy, exactly. Very good.
So, it's a cute way of saying something.
And now, when we were talking about the chess pieces, when another piece takes or gets a piece, you say it captures it.
Okay. We say capture because, well, maybe it's a bit nicer than killing it, but capture means taking and keeping for yourself.
So, we have a very popular game in America called capture the flag.
Right. It's where you have to take each other's flag, right?
You're stealing, essentially.
You're stealing.
So, yeah, this is the term that is used in chess to capture another piece.
Sometimes, like, for example, in Spanish, we actually say, like, to eat the other piece.
Yeah, you eat it.
Well, we're a little bit more tame in those English-speaking countries, but to capture is a very important phrase,
and you're going to hear that in the news as well because you can capture a person.
You can capture a criminal.
All right, and the final word and the way that you end a game of chess, you say checkmate.
Checkmate.
So, the game's over. Checkmate.
Well, there's two things that can happen at the end of a game, and, well, only one thing can happen at the very end of a game,
but you're going to hear these two phrases.
One is check, and the other is checkmate.
So, check means that I can take your king if I want to. Move.
Right. It's in danger.
It's in danger, but checkmate is the end all.
It means this is the very, very last part of a game where you cannot do anything.
I've trapped you, and I win.
Right. Very good.
So, the game is over when somebody says checkmate.
Why don't we listen to this dialogue for the last time,
and then we'll come back and talk a little bit more about this very interesting game.
Bobby, come here. Look what I got you.
Okay. Each player gets 16 pieces.
You can be the white ones, and I'll play with the black pieces.
Now, in the front, you set up the pawns.
See this one that looks like a tower? It's called the rook.
See this little horsey? This is called the knight.
And these two? They are husband and wife.
That's right. That's the queen, and that's the king.
If the other player captures your king, he will say checkmate, and the game is over.
Nah, this sounds boring. I'm going to go play Killer Zombies on my PlayStation.
Pop quiz, Marco.
The word check and the word mate, they both have meanings in English,
but put together, where does this phrase come from? What could it possibly mean?
I have no idea. Why don't you tell us? Because I seriously don't know where it comes from.
Okay, well, this is actually very interesting, because I looked it up, and I had no idea either,
because we've always just said this, and it doesn't really make sense.
So I looked it up on the Internet, and I discovered that the game of chess is actually a very ancient game.
And it did not come from England, it did not come from France, it actually came from Persia.
And in Persian, there are some words that kind of became the English words checkmate
that mean the king is captured or the king is defeated.
Okay, so that's what it means. It doesn't mean the king is dead.
No, it doesn't mean that he's dead, it means that he's been taken.
And so over time, the Persian word went into Arabic, and Arabic became French and English,
and then now we say checkmate.
Checkmate, okay, interesting.
This is a very interesting word, and I'm sure everybody that's listening has a different translation for it in their own language.
I know, for example, that in Spanish, we would say jaque mate.
Jaque mate.
Right, so I guess like jaque is something's in check, it's in danger, and then mate, kind of like kill.
So maybe it's probably not translated properly, because as you mentioned, it should mean defeated or captured, not killed.
So listeners, why don't you let us know how you say checkmate in your language?
Come to our website, englishpod.com.
And also tell us if you have questions about the things we talked about today,
or if you want to share some stories of your own chess victories.
Please get in touch with us on our website, otherwise you can email us at englishpod at praxislanguage.com.
But until then, have a great day. Bye, everyone.
🎵
So what are we talking about today, Marco?
Marco Well, we're talking about one of my favorite
topics, which are computers.
Katarina Yes, you're a little bit of a nerd.
Marco A little bit.
I love computers and technology and everything that's related to it.
Maybe we're buying a new computer.
Katarina Well, I anticipate learning something from
this because there are a lot of those fancy big words that I don't know that have to do
with processors and giga things.
So that's going to be coming up in a minute here.
But first, let's just jump right in and take a listen to today's dialogue.
So can you fix it?
This computer is not broken or damaged.
It's simply just too old.
That's why your programs and applications are running slow.
There really isn't much I can do.
I bought this computer just three years ago.
Yes, but technology is ever changing and technology is becoming obsolete faster and faster.
Okay, I know where this is going.
How much will it cost me to get a new computer?
Well, this desktop over here is our latest model.
It has a four gigahertz processor with 16 gigabytes in RAM and a hard disk with one
terabyte.
Of course, it includes a mouse, keyboard and desk speakers.
I just want to know if it's good and if I'll be able to play solitaire without the computer
crashing or freezing all the time.
This PC is top of the line and I guarantee it will never freeze.
If it does, we'll give you your money back.
I think it's a very typical case you go in to get something fixed and they say, we can't
fix it.
You need a new one.
And not only a new one, but a bigger and better and faster one.
And more expensive, obviously.
Obviously.
Called the upsell.
The upsell, yeah.
All right, so there were some very difficult words, I think, because they're very specific
related to technology and computers.
All right, so the first word we have today is when something is no longer in use.
Okay, so this word is obsolete.
It's obsolete.
Obsolete.
And we're not just talking about like, oh, I haven't touched that pen in like 10 years.
We're talking about a piece of technology that is no longer useful because there's something
else that can do a better job.
And actually, not only with technology, we also have words that are obsolete, right?
Like, thy or thine.
You or yours.
Classical English.
We don't use thy anymore.
Thou art very summery today, Marco.
We don't use that anymore.
That's obsolete English, right?
Or obsolete words.
So obsolete means it's no longer of use.
We have better and newer things in its place.
And now moving on, when the salesman was describing the characteristics of the computer, he used
some prefixes that were a little bit strange, right?
Like for example, giga.
Giga what?
Giga.
All right, so these are actually prefixes that have to do with numbers.
And so this is not just a computer thing.
This is a math thing or a science thing.
So okay, so we've got three different prefixes.
A prefix is something we tack on at the beginning of a word.
So we have hertz or byte, right?
These are little bits of a computer.
Byte.
So you have like megabytes.
Megabytes, we've all heard before.
That's the smallest here.
We've got megabytes, but bigger than mega, we've got gigabytes.
Gigabytes.
Yeah, so now for example, the hard drives are 250 gigabytes.
You might even hear someone say gigs.
You've got a 250 gig hard drive.
But what's bigger than giga?
Now it's the terabyte.
Oh, tera sounds like boom, boom, boom, boom.
I actually wondered what would happen after gigabyte because it's so much information
already.
And now it's the terabyte.
So it's like 1000 gigabytes.
So that's like 200 movies.
That's probably more than that.
It's amazing the amount of storage you can have and how small it actually is.
So mega, giga, tera, going from littlest to biggest.
And well, he described a 4 gigahertz processor.
Okay, so the processor is our next word.
And this is actually something that determines how fast your computer is going to run.
So it comes from the word to process, right?
To like calculate or to think.
To do even.
To do.
So you have different examples like a word processor.
So it's like Microsoft Word.
It allows you to make word documents.
You can also say to process data.
You're trying to calculate it.
But in this case, a processor is like a little brain that's the center of the computer and
that's where all the information gets processed.
So it's the brain of the computer essentially.
And the bigger it is, the faster it can go.
And well, if you don't have a very good processor, your computer is bound to freeze.
So freezing is another key word, especially when talking about computers.
This one drives me nuts.
To freeze, it means to stop moving.
So, well, it has a couple of different meanings.
You might have heard it about ice before.
But to freeze here, we're talking about stopping moving.
So we have a game called freeze tag, where if I touch you, you have to stop running.
But here we're talking about a computer freezing.
I'm moving my mouse and I'm typing and all of a sudden, my mouse doesn't move.
I can't close or open or do anything.
And it's really frustrating.
Especially if you're doing something and you didn't save your work, it's gone.
So if your computer freezes, then usually you have to restart it or turn it off or not.
So that is about it for those words.
But let's take another listen and slow the dialogue down this time so you can catch some
of those big words.
It has a 4 gigahertz processor with 16 gigabytes in RAM and a hard disk with one terabyte.
I just want to know if it's good and if I'll be able to play Solitaire without the computer
Great, so we are back.
So now let's jump into today's Fluency Builder.
All right, so on Fluency Builder, we're going to take a look at three different phrases.
For example, the salesman was describing technology and said that it's ever changing.
Okay, so this is a sort of poetic line here.
So ever changing means always changing.
Always changing.
And so we can say that the ocean is ever changing.
You know, the waves are always changing.
But in this case, he's saying that technology is always changing.
It's always progressing into something new.
And so that is a key selling point for this guy.
So this is actually a very interesting word.
We can use it like in your example, beyond technology, like the way, like the sea is
ever changing.
So why don't we listen to a couple of other examples.
There's always something new in this ever changing world.
Times are ever changing and we must prepare ourselves better every day.
The flu is an ever changing virus that continues to claim many lives.
So now we understand ever changing.
So the man who's trying to buy this computer, or at least get his computer fixed, really
starts to get frustrated with the salesman.
And he says, OK, I know where this is going.
So he hears the sales pitch.
He hears this guy trying to loosen him up a little bit.
He says, I know where this is going.
Where something is going.
So basically what direction a conversation or a topic or a situation is taking.
OK, so he's saying, I know why you're telling me these things.
I know your motive.
Or I know what's happening.
OK, so he's essentially saying, I know you're going to try and sell me a computer.
So you can use it in other circumstances, right?
For example, a relationship.
I don't know where this is going.
What is going?
Classic breakup line.
I just don't think I know where this is going anymore.
So in reference to the relationship, right?
We don't know what's happening.
Are we going to kiss?
Are we maybe going to get married?
I don't know anymore.
I can't tell where this movie is going.
It's so like, oh, here and there and boring.
You don't know the plot.
So it's a very common phrase and it sounds very natural when you say it, right?
It does.
And that's why as an influency builder, it really helps you sound like a more native
English speaker when you use these kind of phrases.
And the next one is also very, very good.
When he describes the condition of the computer, he says it's top of the line.
Top of the line.
Now, what line we're talking about, I do not know, but this is above average line, right?
So this is the best of the best.
This is the top model or the top computer.
And you can definitely imagine a car salesman using this.
This BMW is top line.
It's the best money can buy.
That's another good one.
So basically top of the line is the best of the best.
The above average, right?
More than above average.
It's really it's the best you can do.
And so the guy is saying, listen, this is our best computer.
You should buy it.
And obviously, you have the line.
It's a lot of money.
It's usually for something that costs money, right?
For things you wouldn't really use it for a person, right?
He's top of the line.
Top of the line, I think generally refers to electronics and cars or like motorcycles.
And so you often hear top of the line stereo, top line TV, top of the line car.
But you wouldn't say this about food or people or art.
Yeah, you wouldn't say this.
This painting is top of the line.
Not about like very unique things.
You'd say this about kind of manufactured things.
So we've taken a look at a lot of great phrases.
Why don't we listen to our dialogue for the last time and then we'll come back.
Of course, it includes a mouse, keyboard, and desk speakers.
I have no idea what you are talking about.
So computers, Catherine, I know you recently got a nice Macintosh.
Yeah, yeah, I did.
It's one of those big screen ones, right?
It's a desktop, right?
So it's not a laptop and it's got a very fast processor because Macs started using Intel
processors a couple of years ago and that made them much faster.
Wow, and it has, this processor actually has two cores, right?
So basically it has two different brains almost within one processor.
Which gives it really bad headaches.
She complains to me often.
Are you a big Mac fan or PC fan?
I'm a Mac fan.
I've been converted.
My roommate in college, my sophomore year, had a Mac and ever since then I've really
gotten into them.
So, yeah, I went Mac and didn't turn back.
I still honestly cannot really use a Mac.
I get confused.
I'm looking for the start button and I'm looking for where my documents are.
It's really hard to change over, right?
But once you do, you don't want to change back because everything is so much easier
on a Mac.
But if you're really into PC gaming, then you should probably stick with it.
Stick with the PCs because the games just don't really compare on Macs.
But I've heard that also Macs don't really suffer from viruses, right?
No, they don't, which is great.
Because I always used to get these viruses that would float on my computer because you
know you open some email and all of a sudden there's nastiness on your desktop.
Well now I don't really have that problem.
And also there's really wonderful photo editing software and video editing software.
So everything is just really easy to find and easy to use.
What about you listeners?
Do you prefer the Mac?
Do you prefer the PC?
Or maybe some of our listeners don't really even like computers.
So let us know either way, we're very curious to hear what you have to say.
And of course, writing on our comments section is great practice for your English.
Right, so we'll see you guys there and until next time.
Bye now.
And my name is Katrin.
And today we've got a very, very useful lesson for all of you out there.
We're bringing you part two of the What If series, which is a small series.
And it is kind of grammar focused, but it's very, very important because you often want
to talk about things that don't happen.
We're calling these hypotheticals or conditional statements.
And there are different types of hypotheticals or conditional statements.
So today we're going to be looking at the third conditional, which is probably the hardest
one because it uses a little bit of a complex grammar structure.
It's complex and we're actually talking about things that did not happen and that will not
happen, right?
It's impossible to change.
It's impossible to change these because there are things that would have happened in the
past but didn't.
Wow, that sounds confusing.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue for the first time and then we'll be back to look
at some phrases first.
This is the good life.
We have it good, don't you think?
Although, don't you ever wonder what could have been?
Well, sometimes I think of how things could have turned out if I had done things a little
Like, for example, if I hadn't studied architecture, I would have become an artist like I wanted
to.
Yeah, now that I think of it, I wouldn't have gotten married if I hadn't moved to this
town and met Sally.
You see, everything happens for a reason.
We wouldn't even have met if I hadn't been in that car accident ten years ago.
Well, I have no regrets.
I'll drink to that.
All right, so two guys, you know, talking about life.
I imagine these guys as being, you know, middle age or a little bit older, sitting on a porch,
drinking a beer, talking about what could have been.
They're kind of thinking about the past and the decisions they have made.
All right, so before we start in the grammar, why don't we take a look at a couple of different
phrases on Fluency Builder.
Well, Marco, this first phrase is a phrase you'll hear very often in English.
It's a phrase that even has philosophical roots, something we talked a lot about when
we were studying Socrates back in school.
But this is the good life.
The good life.
We have the good life or I have a good life.
I have a good life is a very common phrase, but here the good life is an idiom.
So I'm living the good life.
It means, you know, I have no complaints about my life.
Right, so pretty much you have all your necessities covered.
And maybe you have a good, a nice family and you have a good job and you're just happy.
So this is the good life.
So you have the good life.
Now moving on to another phrase that's kind of also philosophical, you know, it says everything
happens for a reason.
So this phrase is, well, it's also pretty common.
People say this when bad things happen, but they also say this when good things happen.
So basically you're just saying that it's destiny.
If this bad thing happened to you, there is a reason for it.
Maybe you don't see it now, maybe not tomorrow, but maybe later you'll see why.
This often happens when people lose their jobs.
You say, well, you know, everything happens for a reason.
Maybe losing this job will allow you to find a better job.
Or maybe go back to school and study.
Or maybe meet the man or woman of your dreams.
So everything happens for a reason.
And then the guy agrees and says, well, I'll drink to that.
So this is a way for people speaking English to say, listen, I agree with you.
I like that idea and I will, cheers.
So this means we're going to touch our glasses or touch our beer bottles and we're going
to, you know, think about how this is a, it's a nice thought, you know, everything happens
for a reason is positive.
It's a way to say, listen, good things can happen from this.
So he's saying, yes, I agree.
Well, pretty interesting phrases.
You know, they're very common, I guess, like colloquial, right?
So you can use them in everyday conversation with a friend.
You can.
And, you know, oftentimes we say, for example, something really positive, like, I'm really
glad I have such great friends.
And then everyone says, oh, I'll drink to that.
So this is something you'll hear when you're out with friends or with family.
And they may sound funny at first, but you will recognize them when you're speaking to
people who speak English.
So let's listen to our dialogue again and then we'll come back and explain the grammar.
Although don't you ever wonder what could have been?
Now that I think of it, I wouldn't have gotten married if I hadn't moved to this town and
met Sally.
Beep, beep, beep.
So now it's time for grammar breakdown.
So in grammar breakdown, we're going to look at the two main parts of these phrases that
allow us to talk about things that didn't happen.
So we're talking about looking back at our life and seeing what decisions and what actions
we made.
And in this case, we have a great sentence here.
If I hadn't studied architecture, I would have become an artist.
So let's look at the first part before the comma.
If I hadn't studied architecture, so now we have the conditional if.
So Marco, big question.
Did he study architecture?
He did.
So if I hadn't studied architecture, it means I did study architecture.
But if I had not studied it, okay, so this is if I could change the past, then what would
I have done?
I would have become an artist.
So he wanted to be an artist, but he didn't become an artist.
He studied architecture instead.
You can see the two parts here.
We have one, the condition, if I hadn't done this thing.
And then afterwards, we have the result, then I would have become an artist.
So this is the hypothetical.
And when we see the condition, you see the structure of the sentence is had plus verb
in past participle.
So if I hadn't studied architecture, and this is called the past perfect, right?
And then the result, as you said, would have become, this is the present perfect, have
or has plus verb in past participle.
Let's look at another example.
I wouldn't have gotten married if I hadn't moved to this town.
So we've got the same idea here, but we've got it flipped.
We've got these two parts in different places.
And so he's pretty much saying, if I hadn't moved to this town, then I wouldn't have gotten
married.
But what did happen?
He did move to this town and he did get married.
So then, yeah, like you say, he changed the condition and you can do this.
You can put the condition in the beginning or at the end.
And again, the structure is the same.
I would have gotten married, right?
Have gotten, this is present perfect, have or has, depending on the subject, plus the
verb in past participle.
And then the past perfect or the condition, had plus verb in past participle, hadn't moved
to this town.
That's a lot of grammar.
It's a lot of grammar, but it's very easy once you just start using it.
Don't think too much about, okay, what do I do here?
Just, you know, if you get the rhythm and you start using it in the same way, then it
kind of comes out naturally.
And if you make a little mistake, there's not a big deal because even we do it, you
know?
Well, let's try a couple of examples off the top of our heads.
First of all, if I hadn't moved to China, I wouldn't have learned Chinese.
So you did move to China and you did learn Chinese.
So your turn.
If my parents hadn't spoken Spanish to me when I was a kid, I wouldn't have become fluent
in Spanish.
So your parents did speak Spanish to you and you did become fluent in Spanish.
So not bad.
So maybe you can use it not only to think about things in the past that you can't change
anymore, but just also, you know, kind of remember or say, you know, oh, if this hadn't
happened, the result.
Or if I hadn't opened my big mouth, my best friend wouldn't have gotten so angry at me.
So I said something stupid and my friend did get angry and now I feel bad about it.
It happens.
So I hope it's clear.
It does sound a little bit complicated, but this is what our website is for, right?
So if you have questions or doubts or you want to try and plant your own ideas, you
can come to the website and do it.
Want to make some of your own sentences and practice some of these new things, then come
to our website, post some comments and we are happy to correct and add our own commentary
on those.
So before we go, let's listen to this dialogue one last time.
You have it good, don't you think?
We wouldn't even have met if I hadn't been in that car accident 10 years ago.
So, Catherine, any other regrets maybe in your life apart from opening your mouth?
Any other regrets?
If my parents had spoken Spanish to me as a kid, I would have learned.
But instead, I just learned English and that's all.
Well, your mom is half Swedish, right?
Half Swedish, half Czech.
And she never spoke any of these languages to you?
No, she didn't speak Swedish or Czech.
Her parents spoke English as their common language, but she grew up speaking Italian
and German.
But she didn't speak to me in those languages.
And then as an adult, she forgot some of them.
And so, because my dad was, well, they're both Americans now, but my dad's American.
They just spoke English to me.
But now you speak Italian.
So, do you ever try and talk to your mom in Italian?
Sometimes.
My grandmother's Italian is much better.
So, my grandmother is completely fluent.
So I speak to her in Italian and German as well.
She's fluent in German too.
And I studied German at school.
See, this is the interesting thing now.
So many people are speaking so many languages.
Even before, if you spoke another foreign language, it was a big deal.
But now it's like a requirement.
You have to at least dominate your own native language and a foreign language, right?
So, if your native language is English, you at least have to speak Spanish or Chinese
or some other language.
Definitely true.
And I think there are a lot of people, a lot of our users that speak maybe two or three
languages and English is just one more.
So, you know, more power to them.
This is a really great skill to have and I think it's really important to keep on going
with it even though it's frustrating sometimes.
And actually, once you've been able, and actually once you mastered two or three different languages,
then the fourth and fifth just becomes easier.
Actually it's true.
It sounds funny when you hear it because you're like, how could it be easier to learn more?
But your brain starts to understand patterns better, right?
And so it just becomes more natural for you.
It just picks up patterns from the two or three other different languages that you dominate.
So it's a weird, it's strange how the brain works.
You make connections.
So that's all for today.
Be sure to visit our website EnglishPod.com.
As we said, any questions or comments or you want us to correct your grammar of this lesson,
you can visit us there and we'll see you guys next time.
Special thanks topopular Editor Scotton McCray for en regulating Englishijn.com.
Welcome back to another lesson with us here at EnglishPod.
My name is Catherine and that's us.
And that's us.
And today we're going to talk about a very common situation when you're a couple, when
you have a girlfriend.
I want to go.
Are you?
You are taking forever.
Who takes long?
Like do you take a long time to get ready, to get dressed?
I take longer to get ready, but my boyfriend takes longer in general because he's like
checking his email, playing video games, like just, you know, we call it lollygagging.
He's just like being kind of slow.
I'm the opposite.
I usually start getting ready later.
Like if we have to leave at nine, I'll start getting ready at 830, but I'll be ready by
nine because I take a shower real fast, get dressed, and I know what I'm going to wear
and all my clothes are ready.
On the other hand, my girlfriend takes forever to get ready and she's like, oh, and then,
you know, the hair.
Girls have makeup and tights and shoes.
But this is what I understand.
If we're supposed to leave at nine, why don't you start getting ready before?
Never underestimate women.
Procrastination.
Hey, it's not even about procrastination.
Sometimes it just takes longer to look good than other times.
Well, in this case, we're going to be looking at a lesson where it's the opposite.
The husband is taking a long time to get ready and well, I don't think he has a very good
fashion sense, right?
He does not.
And we're going to learn what that phrase means in a minute here.
But before we get going, I've got a couple of words to preview to help you understand
what's going on in today's dialogue.
So, vocabulary preview.
Today we have two words.
The first one can be a noun or a verb, to iron.
Or iron.
So to iron basically means to...
To get the wrinkles out of clothes.
And so we use this...
Iron is actually a metal.
It's a very important metal.
And an iron is a machine that we plug in.
We use it to get the wrinkles, the lines out of our shirts and our skirts and everything.
So, it's actually a very important thing to make sure that you look nice and put together.
So, you use an iron to iron your shirt or to iron your skirt.
And then we have sandals.
My favorite type of shoe.
Mine too.
Sandals.
I have a friend who used to say she had claustrophobic feet.
Her feet didn't like to be in closed spaces.
So, she only wore sandals.
So these are open shoes, open toe shoes basically.
You wear them at the beach.
Or you wear them in the summer in general.
I'm wearing sandals right now.
And you have different types of sandals like sandals and flip-flops, right?
Flip-flops I think they're called that because they sound like flip-flop, flip-flop when
you walk.
Alright, so those are our two words today.
Let's listen to the dialogue for the first time and then we'll be back.
We're going to be late.
Honestly, you take longer getting ready than I do.
I was drying my hair and ironing my shirt.
Can you come here for a second?
I need your help.
Why are all these clothes on the bed?
I don't know what to wear.
Okay, give me your opinion.
Do you like the way this looks?
The striped short-sleeved shirt with this checkered sweater and my lucky sandals.
I like the cut and hemline of these shorts.
So I think I'll wear these as well.
What am I going to do with you?
You're going to a dinner party, not to the beach.
Wear the shirt with the silk tie I bought you and those corduroy pants.
It's chilly outside so you can wear this coat.
You have such great fashion sense.
Now what am I going to do with my hair?
So interesting, this husband sounded a lot like a famous president, I think.
He did, but we'll get to that in a minute.
Before we do talk about who this guy is, I think it'd be a great idea to talk about some
of these clothing terms because they're very useful for when you want to go shopping and
for when you're getting dressed.
Okay, so the first word that we have on language takeaway is striped.
All right, you might have heard of the American flag called stars and stripes.
Stripes are those lines on clothing or on flags that go up or down or left and right.
So if you have a striped shirt, you have many lines on your shirt that are going up and
down or left and right.
Right, and they say with fashion, lines that go left to right make you look fatter and
lines that go up and down make you look thinner.
And taller.
And now moving on, if it's summer and you want to wear a shirt, you can wear a short
sleeved shirt.
All right, this is important.
So most people like to wear short sleeved shirts in the summertime because they're cooler.
And in the wintertime, that means we like to wear long sleeved shirts.
Okay, so the sleeves are basically the arms of the shirt.
You say short sleeved.
And then we have a checkered shirt or a checkered sweater in this case.
Okay, so checkered means there are little squares on the shirt and usually one square
is one color and the next square is another color.
So it looks like a checkerboard.
That game, you know, checkers.
Or like a chessboard.
And so in this case, we've got a guy who's trying to wear a striped shirt and a checkered
sweater.
That does not go well together, right?
Too much stuff happening.
It's too busy.
Too busy.
And not only that, but he wanted to wear shorts because he liked the cut and the hemline.
Okay, these are actually terms that we normally use with women's clothing because you could
say, I like the cut of this dress.
I like the shape that it has.
So the hemline is the bottom of your skirt or your trousers or your shorts and hemline,
we could say, my mother used to say this to me, the hemline is much too high, much too
short.
That skirt is not appropriate.
So it's nice to have a hemline at the knee.
So the cut is the shape that the piece of clothing has like pants or skirts and the
hemline would be the place where it ends, right?
The skirt, for example.
Like it pretty much tells you the length of something.
And now the wife steps in, she's like, no, no, you're not wearing this.
She's telling him that she has to wear nice clothes and among those items is a silk tie.
So a classic Father's Day gift.
Silk tie.
I've given this one a couple of times.
A silk tie is a necktie, a long necktie that's made of silk.
Silk is a very soft material, right?
Very expensive as well.
It can be, especially Italian silk.
And I've always actually wanted to have silk sheets.
Ooh, see, I don't know.
I feel like they would get very warm in the summer.
Well, in the winter it would be awesome, but probably very cold in the winter as well.
Well, it's one of those things.
And then she's also telling him to wear some corduroy pants.
So it sounds like this might be a winter dialogue because corduroy is not something you wear
in the summer because it's very heavy and thick.
Corduroy actually is a fabric that usually has these kind of ribs or ridges.
And so there's like little lines in the fabric that make it quite thick and rough when you...
Almost not rough, but they make it feel very unique when you touch it.
It's not smooth.
It's a little bit rough, the fabric.
So those are all the clothing items that we've looked at today.
There's a lot of them.
And obviously we'll post a couple of pictures on the site so you can see better what a silk
tie looks like or especially corduroy pants.
Corduroy, yeah.
We're going to slow it down a little bit and then we'll come back and look at some of the
Can you come here for a minute?
I'm not ready.
I'm here for a sec.
Why are all these clothes on the bed I don't know what to wear.
Do you like the way this looks the strap short sleeve shirt with this checkered sweater?
My lucky sandals I like the cut in hemline of these shorts.
What am I going to do with you
It's chilly outside, so you can wear this coat.
Now, what am I going to do with my hair?
Alright, we're back, so now let's start with Fluency Builder.
OK, these are classic couple phrases, right?
These are phrases you hear among couples, and the first one is maybe more common to
hear from the female end, but it's not unknown on the male end.
So, we have this question.
So while the person is saying this, they would maybe be moving to the side a little bit.
Modeling it.
So basically you're saying, do you like what I'm wearing?
Does it look good on me?
Does it look good?
You could also say, hey, I like the way this looks when you're trying to buy something
at the store.
And so, do you like the way this looks is a way for you to ask the other person's opinion
of how you look.
And also, another common phrase, especially with men who have no fashion sense, the wife
says, what am I going to do with you?
OK, this is an interesting phrase and it needs some explanation, I think, because the meaning
is, well, this is very difficult, right?
So you're being difficult or, wow, you need some help from me.
I'm going to help you.
How am I going to help you this much or all the time like this?
Right, because she's pretty much saying he has no idea about clothing and fashion.
So he's saying to her, what am I going to do with you?
It means you need so much help.
And the third phrase that we saw and we said at the very beginning is fashion sense.
OK, so this is actually what the man needs help with.
He needs help with his fashion sense because he has zero fashion sense.
And this is pretty much a way to say how much someone knows about fashion or appearances.
And so I can say, oh, my friend Kathy, she has amazing fashion sense.
So she always looks good.
So combining colors appropriately or wearing the right types of shoes with the right types
of clothing, et cetera, fashion sense.
Or even just being able to wear things that are good on her or telling other people what's
good on them.
So fashion sense is the ability to identify fashion and look good and make other people
look good.
Let's listen to this dialogue for the very last time and we'll come back and talk a little
bit more about fashion because it's a very interesting topic.
Can you come here for a sec?
OK, give me your opinion.
The striped short sleeve shirt with this checkered sweater, my lucky sandals.
We're going to a dinner party, not to the beach.
Wear the shirt with the silk tie I bought you and these corduroy pants.
You lived in Italy for a while.
How is the fashion over there?
Is it extreme like we see on the runways?
Because I honestly don't understand fashion.
Well, the thing about runways is that that's not how normal people dress.
Well, yeah, that's what I understand.
Why do they have these fashion shows if people don't really buy these types of clothing?
Well, sometimes people like stores, for example, big stores, department stores will buy fashions
off of the runway and they'll kind of change them a little bit so that they're more appropriate
for normal consumption.
That means for normal people who want to wear them.
But the runway fashions are actually, they're kind of like exaggerations of trends that
will happen in the shopping world, right, in the commercial world.
So the things that you see are like big, blown up exaggerations.
And we take bits and pieces of those in our daily lives to dress up.
So different colors or fabrics or like oftentimes you see kind of military outfits.
And so that will translate into military jackets that are very popular one season.
And so Italy definitely counts as a very fashionable country, but it's not crazy.
Well, every once in a while you see some more crazy clothes, but I think Japan is much more
crazy as far as style.
Yeah, actually, yeah.
Asian countries such as Japan or South Korea, they have very, also unique fashion as well,
but it's very extreme to a certain point.
And the color combinations they do is like red sneakers with green pants and like a blue
jacket.
It's very crazy.
And very bright.
And you often see these shoes, you know, we call them platform shoes.
It's kind of like you're standing on a brick.
Yeah, they're huge.
And they're, you know, they're seven inches tall.
And you see these little girls wearing these big shoes.
And I just, I'm so scared when I see them because I feel like they're going to fall
over.
The other thing is that fashion is so expensive.
If you actually want to buy something that's in like an authentic, I don't know, Carolina
Herrera or Oscar de la Renta or something like that.
But you know, high fashion is expensive.
Fashion is not, doesn't have to be.
You can be fashionable just looking at different stores and going to secondhand shops and making
your own clothes.
I mean, it's all about a sense of personal style and dressing yourself to be unique.
Or you can get at the fake market.
Or you can go to the fake market.
That's all the time we have for today, guys.
Please come to our website and comment at EnglishPod.com.
And if you have any other suggestions or maybe your own pictures of crazy fashion, you can
post.
We're glad to see them.
As Marco said, hope to see you on the website.
That's about it for today.
So goodbye, everyone.
And today we're going to be visiting one of my favorite places, I must say.
So you're a big meat eater?
I am.
I have to have meat every day, so that's why I usually go to the butcher.
So vegetarians be warned, today's dialogue is all about eating meat and where to go to
get meat.
So as Marco said, that place is called the butcher's.
So we're going to be visiting the butcher and we're going to learn all the different
types of meat you can find there.
So we don't have anything to preview, but before we get started, just like to mention
that you're going to hear a lot of different kinds of words and we'll be back in a minute
to talk about what they mean.
Hi, what can I get for you?
I'd like half pound of ground beef, please.
Good choice.
Our ground beef is extra lean, if you know what I mean.
Could I also have half a dozen pork chops and two pounds of boneless chicken breast?
No, no, no chicken breasts at the moment.
But we have some nice chicken thighs.
No, that won't do.
I'll take this smoked ham you have here.
Sorry, is there anything else?
Is this salami and bologna you have here?
Yes, it's very fine meat.
Made it myself.
Okay, that's it.
Wait, we have T-bone, rib eye and sirloin steaks.
They are very fresh.
Just came from the slaughterhouse.
No, that's okay.
Really, I think that's all for today.
Okay, that'll be $34.50.
So this butcher was kind of creepy in the beginning.
Very creepy in the beginning.
I think that's usually the conception that you have of butchers because they always have
a knife and they're always covered in blood, but it's not human blood.
Right, like the movie Sweeney Todd.
Yeah, like Sweeney Todd.
The butcher of Fleet Street.
But we actually took a look at a lot of different types of meat that the woman was ordering.
So why don't we take a look at these now in Language Takeaway.
Okay, so the first is a classic cut.
This is something that we had at my house about once a week growing up.
It's called a pork chop.
Pork chop.
So a pork chop comes from the animal, the pork or pig.
Yeah, we actually don't say pork to mean the animal.
Pork just means the kind of meat that comes from a pig.
So big difference there when we're talking about food, we say pork.
And what about a pork chop?
So what exactly is that?
Chop is usually just on the bone and oftentimes it's fried or baked, I guess, but it's just
a piece of pork on the bone and a chop, you just imagine a knife chopping something.
All right, so a pork chop, very good.
And after pork chops, we were ordering some ground beef.
All right, so ground beef is another important one.
Ground beef is beef that's been chopped up and pushed through a machine that kind of
pushes it out in very, very small bits and pieces.
There's no bones.
So ground comes from the verb to grind.
So to grind up meat, to make it very, very small pieces.
Right, so if you want to make a spaghetti bolognese, the kind of beef you use is ground
beef or even hamburgers.
Oh, yeah, exactly.
So ground beef, you ground up beef.
What other things would you grind?
You could grind your teeth.
Some people do that when they're sleeping, they grind their teeth.
You can grind, you have pepper grinders.
You know, peppers sometimes come in balls and you have to grind them to make them smaller
and broken down.
So that's ground beef and from the verb to grind.
Now we are buying some boneless chicken breasts.
All right, so boneless, as you have guessed, means without bones.
And chicken breasts are usually just a really nice, juicy, kind of tender cut of meat from
the chicken, from the underside of the chicken where obviously, yeah, they have it.
It's not a wing, it's not a leg, it's just a chicken breast.
All right, so boneless chicken breast.
Now usually it is boneless, right, when you buy it at the supermarket.
Next up, we've got some classic deli counter favorites.
These are our cold cuts.
All right, so cold cuts.
Now this means that they are cold?
Oh, well, yeah, they're cold.
But I think cold cuts, the most important thing to remember here is that they're mostly
like kinds of salami or cured meats.
So these are salt cured or they're dried meats.
And you usually have them on sandwiches, so like a salami sandwich.
So like cured meat, you mean that meat hasn't been cooked?
Oh, no, it's not been cooked, but it's treated in a way that allows it to last for a very
long time.
So they look like long, long tubes of meat.
They look very dry.
They look very dry, like beef jerky, for example.
All right, so cured meat.
Now, for example, we have salami and bologna.
Bologna.
Now, it's interesting because bologna is actually spelled B-O-L-O-G-N-A.
So you would say bologna or something like that.
Well, I think it comes from the Italian bologna.
But it's definitely a change that happened in the English language when it came over
from Italy.
But bologna is a kind of meat that's got a very funny looking name.
Yeah, see, you're more sophisticated than I am.
That's why you know this difference.
I just speak Italian.
All right, so you have salami, bologna, and...
Pastrami.
What about ham?
Is that considered a cold cut?
You can have ham in the cold cut section because ham sometimes comes in tubes that you slice.
But ham is also just a normal kind of pork.
But ham is cured, you know.
Like a smoked ham.
Or smoked turkey, one of my favorites.
And, well, now moving on from the cold cuts, we're going to concentrate on steaks.
Ooh, steaks.
So there are a thousand kinds of steaks in this world and every city seems to have its
own kind.
But here we're only looking at three, the first of which is the T-bone.
All right, the T-bone steak, I think, is one of the most popular ones.
It's a steak that's pretty big, right?
Yeah, well, yeah, it can be.
And it has a bone inside that looks like a T.
All right, so you're saying, Marco, that the T-bone is named after the shape and the look
of this steak.
Yeah, T-bone steak.
And as well as our next one is also a rib eye.
Okay, so the rib eye, I think, actually has a piece of the rib in it.
So the rib is the bone and there's a circle, which is kind of a, it's, it's a, the piece
of meat is sliced off the rib and the circle is actually part of that rib.
So there's a little bit of bone in it.
But it's not as bony as the T-bone.
So it does have one small bone that kind of looks like an eye because you can see through
And our next steak has no bone and is the most tender and the best steak you can have,
sirloin steak.
So I think the, the sirloin is definitely the most expensive if you're in a restaurant.
Definitely the most tender, I think, of all those.
And usually you can have like a big sirloin steak, like a half a kilo, like a 400 gram
I had a friend who ate a full kilo.
Sirloin steak.
Is there a competition or?
No, there's a kind of steak called la bistecca alla fiorentina in Italy.
It's the Florentine beef steak and it is, it can be about a kilo of meat.
I bet you can't even move after that.
No, you're, no, you fall asleep with your head in your soup on the table.
So that's all the meat related words that we have for you today.
So why don't we move on now to Fluency Builder where we're going to take a look at some of
the phrases in this dialogue.
We're going to look at the phrases if you know what I mean.
If you know what I mean.
Now I love this phrase, if you know what I mean.
I do know what you mean.
Well, it's weird.
I like it too.
So you can use it for sarcasm.
Or you can use it to kind of insinuate something.
So here's what you're saying.
You're saying there's a double meaning in what I want to say.
So there's two things I could say and I'm not going to say it outright, but you know,
this thing that we can't really say.
So for example, we can say she likes to go out if you know what I mean.
So you're insinuating that not only does she like to go out, but maybe, maybe she goes
out a lot, a lot, or maybe she gets drunk or something like that.
So it's kind of like a double meaning, but you're trying to be subtle.
But it's not so subtle because you're actually saying like, this is not what I mean.
Or she's eating for two if you know what I mean.
There we go.
So you're insinuating that, well, you're not really insinuating, you're telling me that.
Eating for two is a common idiom in English that means that a person, a woman has a, well,
is going to have a baby.
So here I'm saying, hey, do you know this idiom?
She's eating for two if you know what I mean.
Wink, wink, wink.
Wink, wink.
So now why don't we take a look at some other examples of how we could use if you know what
I mean in different circumstances when you're trying to insinuate something.
She's eating for two now, if you know what I mean.
Tim hit a home run today, if you know what I mean.
Jim and Laura are going their separate ways, if you know what I mean.
We're back.
So now that that's clear, why don't we move on to our next phrase?
So this one is a counting phrase.
And for those of you who have heard the word dozen before, it might not be so new.
The phrase is half a dozen.
Half a dozen.
So that means half of 12.
12.
So a dozen is 12.
And it's, I'm not really sure when this started being used in English, but a dozen is 12 and
half a dozen is then six.
Now there's another phrase or another saying that's very common, a dime a dozen.
He's a dime a dozen.
So that means you can get 12 of the same type of guys for 10 cents.
So they're easy to find.
They're easy to find.
The dime a dozen.
And moving on to our last one.
When they were talking, they said something about the meat being lean, extra lean.
Lean, this does not mean lean on a door.
This is not like resting on something.
This is actually a kind of way to describe food.
And so food is lean if it's not got much fat, it's not fatty.
So if it's lean, it doesn't have much fat.
So I prefer to eat lean meats.
So I often eat birds and poultry.
So chicken, I like it pretty lean.
And if it's got fat on it, I'll cut the fat off.
Like the skin.
The skin is fat, right?
So you can have lean beef.
It doesn't have much fat around it.
And actually on the packages at the supermarket, it often says the percentage of meat that
you have.
So it's 95% lean or 98% lean.
So that means you have 3% fat in there.
Or 2%.
My math skills are amazing.
So now that we've finished with all of these words on Fluency Builder, let's take a look
at our dialogue for the last time.
No, no, no chicken breasts at the moment, but we have some nice chicken thighs.
No that won't do.
Is there anything else?
It's very fine meat.
We have T-bone, rib eye, and sirloin steaks.
No, that's okay, really.
I think that's all for today.
Alright, we're back.
So Catherine, are you a big beef or meat eater?
Definitely am.
It helps that my partner in crime is from Kansas City and they have the best, among
the best steaks in our entire country in Kansas City.
I actually miss, there was back in California, we had the $6 burger from Carl's Jr.
It was just basically beef, bacon, cheese, it was just like this huge burger full of
meat and obviously a lot of calories.
But it was delicious.
In Ecuador we are very used to having some meat product every day with our food.
Yeah, well it's the same in the Midwest actually from where we're from.
It's the same in the Midwest because people in the Midwest generally think that if you're
not eating meat then what are you eating?
Bread?
Corn?
So meat is considered a healthy part of the day and you definitely eat it with your meals.
Yeah, and I'm sure our vegetarian listeners might not appreciate this but it's just kind
of different diets.
Some people eat, for example, rice every day.
So where in other countries you wouldn't really have rice every day.
Or for example, when I was in Chile, I had a lot of potatoes.
A lot of potatoes.
Have you ever had an Argentine steak?
I hear they have the best beef in the world.
They are not only delicious but they are very inexpensive and it's amazing.
You can have a complete steak buffet for like, I don't know, I can't even remember but I
sat there for three hours and couldn't move and kept eating.
Is it true you can eat it with a spoon?
It's so soft?
Some of the meat is very, very tender.
Not if it's grilled, you can't really do that, but in other preparations it's almost like
With a nice butter sauce.
Mmm, herbs.
Making me hungry.
I know, you've made me hungry.
I think we're going to take off and have some burgers.
If you have any questions, any comments, please come to our website at EnglishPod.com and
we're there to answer any doubts.
And we'd love to know what your favorite foods are, meat or otherwise, so post something
on our website.
Hope to see you there soon.
Cheeseputer.com
And today we're talking about something very serious.
Very serious.
Today we're talking about capital punishment.
So if you've never heard that phrase before, you might have heard another name for this
topic.
It's called the death penalty.
So if you commit a crime and basically the judge says that you will have to be put to
death for that crime.
So many countries no longer have this.
This law, the United States, you can see it in some places, some states, but not in others.
So what we're talking about today is the debate between to have the death penalty and to not
have it.
So we're going to actually have a little debate in the end of if we agree that we should have
the death penalty or not.
But before that, why don't we listen to this dialogue for the first time?
That's all for today's class.
We will continue our lecture on crime and punishment tomorrow.
Do you think we should be tougher on crime?
Well, it depends on what you mean.
For example, we could bring back the death penalty for murder, give longer prison sentences
for lesser offenses and lock up juvenile offenders.
Those sound like really draconian measures.
Firstly, what do you do about miscarriages of justice if you've already put innocent
people to death?
You'd only use capital punishment if you were absolutely sure that you convicted the right
person.
But there have been many cases of wrongful conviction where people have been imprisoned
for many years.
The authorities were sure at the time, but later it was shown that the evidence was unreliable.
In some cases, it had been fabricated by the police.
Well, no system of justice can be perfect, but surely there's a good case for longer
prison sentences to deter serious crime.
I doubt whether they could act as an effective deterrent while the detection rate is so low.
The best way to prevent crime is to convince people who commit it that they're going to
be caught.
It doesn't make sense to divert all your resources into the prison system.
But if you detect more crimes, you'll still need prisons.
In my reckoning, if we could lock up more juvenile criminals, they'd learn that they
can't get away with it.
Soft sentences will merely encourage them to do it again.
Yes, but remember that prisons are often schools for criminals.
To remove crime from society, you really have to tackle its causes.
Well, if I were president, I would impose tougher laws and punishment.
I would have a peaceful society based on fear of punishment, not consciousness of doing
the right thing.
You sound like a dictator.
Well, if it works, why not?
All right, so Marco, there's a lot of really great legal terms here, legal and crime terms.
And so let's look at a few of these in today's Language Takeaway.
All right, so let's take a look at the first one.
They mentioned juvenile offenders.
All right, so let's look at these two words because, well, offender can be pretty general.
It's someone who commits a crime.
So an offender.
But we're talking about a special kind of offender.
Here we're talking about juvenile offenders.
So they're young offenders.
In America, legally, you're a juvenile offender if you're under the age of 18.
Okay, so if you commit a crime while you are a juvenile, you get judged differently, right?
You don't get the same treatment as an adult.
Usually, the punishments are not as harsh because people like to think that younger
people, younger children or teenagers, they don't really understand the law.
They don't really understand crime or good and bad.
So it should be easier on them.
So we have juvenile offenders and we also have wrongful conviction.
All right, this is an uh-oh moment for a judge because a wrongful conviction, well, conviction
first of all is a decision.
So this is a court's decision on whether or not a person is guilty.
So you convicted the person.
Marco was convicted guilty of stealing my computer.
I was too.
That happened.
But it's a wrongful conviction if Marco didn't really steal a computer but we decided that
he did.
So it was a wrong decision.
It was a bad decision in the sense that it's actually not what happened in reality.
A wrongful conviction.
And actually related to a wrongful conviction, many times it happens because evidence is
fabricated by the police.
So this is a big no-no.
This is something that really shouldn't happen and it's against the law in many countries.
So fabrication or to fabricate is to fake, to make something up.
And so evidence that's fabricated is evidence that the police or other people create to
try and make someone look guilty but it's not actually evidence.
It's not really.
That's not true.
It's not true.
And now moving on, they were talking about a deterrent for crime.
Okay, so to deter is a verb.
To deter means to try and get someone to not do something.
So I'm going to try and deter my staff from taking early lunch breaks.
So I'm going to punish someone as a deterrent.
As a deterrent.
So you have the verb deter and you have the noun a deterrent.
And so oftentimes very strict laws are meant to be deterrents.
They're meant to keep people from doing bad things, from breaking the law.
So for example, capital punishment is one of those deterrents.
If you kill somebody, then if you get caught, you are also going to be killed.
So that means I'm never going to kill anyone because I don't want the law to decide that
I'm going to get killed.
And our last word for today, they were talking about imposing tougher laws.
I would impose tougher laws.
So to impose is a verb that means to put in place or to set up or enact.
And so...
You don't really impose, right?
You don't really agree to do it.
Like the dictator imposes his will.
So he makes everyone do what he wants.
But we can impose measures that do something.
It's kind of like forcibly making people follow some kind of rule or follow a person.
Now sometimes you would see that you have a company or you have people at your house
and they're like, well, you know, stay over for dinner.
And they're like, oh, I wouldn't want to impose.
Well, I wouldn't want to bother you or I wouldn't want to create more work for you because,
you know, when you're making food, you have all these people, they don't want to impose
on you.
So that's another way of using this, impose on somebody.
So after all of these words that we've taken a look at, why don't we start now with Fluency
Builder?
So as you know, Fluency Builder is a place where we get to talk about some phrases and
words that allow you to be more fluent in English.
So these are sometimes idioms or sometimes phrases, words that go together commonly.
And the first one is no exception.
It's a miscarriage.
So miscarriage of justice.
A miscarriage of justice.
Now we have different words here.
The first one, miscarriage, it's usually related to a medical term.
It's a pregnancy.
Well, it's a pregnancy that has a sad result.
It's a pregnancy where the woman's baby dies or the woman loses the baby.
And a miscarriage of justice is a metaphor.
It's a way to say that justice was not carried out.
It means that, for example, with those wrongful convictions, the law failed.
To accomplish its objective.
To accomplish its objective and to be fair.
So a miscarriage of justice.
And moving on to our next phrase, they were talking and discussing this whole death penalty
situation and she mentioned, in my reckoning.
So this is a great way to share your opinion or your idea with someone.
You're saying pretty much, in my opinion, in my, according to me or, you know, the way
I'm thinking is this.
So I can also say, I reckon, right?
I reckon it's going to rain later.
I think it's going to rain.
So in my reckoning, in my opinion.
I reckon.
And to finish off Fluency Builder, they said that the person or the criminal couldn't get
away with it.
So this is another one of those phrases that each word maybe means something different.
You can get somewhere.
But put together, to get away with something means to do something bad or illegal or that's
not okay without getting caught.
Or being punished.
So you can say, get away with murder.
He got away with murder.
You know, he did something that was really, really bad but no one caught him.
And also it means the criminal got away so they couldn't catch him.
Or I could always say to my brother, he would always lie to my parents and get away with
So he never got caught.
He never got punished.
So he got away with his lie or got away, got his way.
So I think this is an interesting phrase.
Why don't we listen to a couple of more examples.
Do you think we could get away with using the cheaper product?
Thieves got away with two Picassos which were never found.
He almost got away with murder.
Unfortunately for him, the police discovered his secret.
Well it depends on what you mean.
for lesser offenses, and lock up juvenile offenders.
All right, so now the big question, Catherine, do you agree with the death penalty?
Oh, this is a big one, and I don't think we have enough time to go into it in much detail
here, but I definitely think that is extreme, right?
And so we have this phrase, draconian measures.
Right, they mentioned that in the dialogue.
Yeah, so draconian, something that's draconian is excessive or severe, you know?
And I think that there are a lot of reasons not to have the death penalty, because the
death penalty, well, you're pretty much saying we as a society think that murder is wrong,
but we're going to show you that you've done a wrong thing, like a bad thing that's against
the law by killing you.
All right, and so I have to disagree with that on a philosophical level.
But what about practical?
Practically speaking, I think that there are a lot of problems with the prison system and
the legal system in the United States, for example, because prisons are really crowded.
1% of the American population is in prison.
And so I think that so long as the prison system still has problems, there's a really
good argument for having the death penalty.
But still, I think that it's excessive and it's unnecessary and that there are other
ways to treat and punish prisoners.
It is an interesting topic because you have many different angles that are in favor or
against the death penalty.
For example, you have religious views where you say that you should not take a life of
another person no matter what.
Or you have other views that say that the death penalty is simply wrong and that you
can't right a wrong with another wrong.
So it kind of doesn't make sense.
But at the same time, you do, like you say, the prisons are full of people and it costs
around I think it's $12,000 a year per person to keep them in prison.
So what do you do with all of these people that have life sentences that are going to
spend the rest of their lives in jail?
So it is interesting and many countries are very, very strict with their legal system
in comparison with the United States, right?
Definitely, but there is a statistic that's pretty stunning that I think among the top
20 developed nations in the world, I think only the United States is the one with the
death penalty.
And actually, the ratio of people compared to the population that are in jail is much
higher in the United States than in other countries.
So it is a very questionable topic, but we want to know what you think.
Do you think that the death penalty is a justifiable way to do justice?
Or do you think maybe it's just wrong and we shouldn't have it anymore?
Yeah, we're hoping that this will get the conversation going on our website.
If you have any opinions, please let us know about them.
EnglishPod.com is the website and of course, you can always email us or send us a PM if
you're a little bit shy.
All right, so we'll see you guys there.
Hello, everyone, and welcome back to EnglishPod.
And my name is Catherine, and we've got a great lesson for you today.
What level is this, Marco?
This is an elementary lesson, and we're going to be touching one of these medical topics.
Today we're going to talk about chickenpox.
Oh, gosh, I hated the chickenpox.
They're horrible, and they itch, and you can't do anything about it, and your parents say,
don't scratch.
So chickenpox is an illness that you get usually as a child, and what happens is you start
getting these little red dots all over your body, like little mosquito bites.
Exactly, and they come all over your body, arms, legs, face, and you can only get this
disease once, unless maybe you didn't really get it too seriously.
So most people get this when they're children.
Exactly, and what makes you very uncomfortable when you get chickenpox, as you said, it's
these little red dots, they itch, just like mosquito bites, but you can't scratch because
if you do, then your skin gets like marked, right?
You have like stains.
Forever.
Forever, like scars.
So it's best not to scratch, and that's what we're going to talk about today.
Somebody has the chickenpox.
So let's listen to our dialogue for the first time, and then we'll be right back.
What's wrong with you?
Why are you scratching so much?
I feel itchy.
I can't stand it anymore.
I think I may be coming down with something.
I feel lightheaded and weak.
Whoa, get away from me.
I think you have chickenpox.
I think I have chickenpox.
I'm going to watch it.
I'm really curious.
What's that on your hand?
I forget it's golden.
I think it's golden.
I'm getting stiffer and stiffer.
Stiff?
I'm really going to get the chicken or chickenpox.
I don't know, it's not chicken or things.
What is it, it's like...
Alright, we're back, so I think this kid does have the chicken pox.
Definitely, and well, he's got a funny solution for it.
But before we get there, we've got a lot of great medical words and just basic body words
for you in today's Language Takeaway.
Alright, so let's start with our first word.
He mentioned that he felt itchy.
Itchy.
Okay, this is often confused even among children who are native speakers of English.
There are two words, to itch and to scratch.
But this person is itchy, so it means that your skin, you want to scratch it.
It's maybe uncomfortable.
Like a mosquito bite is itchy.
Okay, so itchy would be the adjective, right?
To the noun, an itch.
So if you have an itch, you feel itchy, right?
So, and that's when you scratch.
Alright so he feels itchy and he also felt a little bit lightheaded.
Okay, so you know the word head, you know the word light.
So here we have a person who feels lightheaded.
It means that you kind of feel a little bit strange and your head is a little bit, well,
what's a good word to describe it?
Like dizzy.
Yeah, almost dizzy or faint.
So, you usually feel a little bit weak.
You don't really feel very well.
Your head is lightheaded.
The complete opposite of having a headache, right?
Okay, and well then the girl got scared and she said, get away, you are contagious.
Oh gosh, now this is a dangerous one.
Someone who is contagious can pass their illness to someone else.
So for example, the flu is very contagious and if I have the flu, Marco doesn't want
me to, you know, come over and touch all of his stuff and sneeze and cough into his food.
So that's contagious.
It's an adjective and that means that you easily pass your illness to another person.
Alright, so why don't we take a look at a couple of different examples using this word
contagious.
Don't get near me.
Chicken pox are very contagious.
The sickness that is going around the office is very contagious.
H1N1 flu is very contagious.
Alright, so you want to avoid contagious people but you might also want to avoid people who
have this next word.
It's called a rash.
A rash, exactly.
So why do you want to avoid people who have a rash?
They might have a contagious rash.
Who knows but you can get a rash for a number of different reasons.
A rash is just basically a part of your skin that becomes irritated or uncomfortable and
sometimes it turns red or pink.
So, as you said, it happens for different reasons.
Sometimes you maybe have bad seafood in your skin and you start to have rashes all over
your body.
Other times you can touch some plants that are dangerous like poison ivy or poison oak.
And then you get a big rash.
And our last word for today is a little bit dramatic.
She called him a biohazard.
Biohazard.
Well, let's take a look at these words individually.
The first word bio comes from the word biology.
So that's something that is alive.
An animal, a plant or a person.
And hazard is something that is dangerous.
So a biohazard is a, well, something that's alive that's dangerous.
Something that's dangerous towards a living person, right, or organism.
For example, you don't want to be near an area that has a lot of radiation.
It's a biohazard.
Or some of these diseases like Ebola virus.
These are very dangerous towards living things.
And so biohazard is the name for it.
And usually there's a symbol, a very clear symbol that kind of looks like a triangle
and it's red.
And even in movies it's appeared, right?
I think in that movie.
It's red or yellow.
Yeah, sometimes.
So biohazard.
I think we've taken a look at a lot of words.
So why don't we listen to this dialogue again?
Let's slow it down a little bit.
See if we can understand a little bit more.
Get away from me.
I think you have the chicken pox.
You're contagious.
Get away.
Don't breathe on me.
Maybe it's just a rash or an allergy.
We can't be sure until I see a doctor.
Well, in the meantime, you are a biohazard.
I didn't get it when I was a kid and I've heard that you can even die if you get it
as an adult.
You always blow things out of proportion.
In any case, I think I'll go take an oatmeal bath.
Eww.
Why don't we take a look at Fluency Builder and start taking a look at all these phrases.
Well, the first one is something that we often say when we're starting to feel ill.
This phrase is coming down with.
So I could say, I think I'm coming down with a cold, for example.
So basically, you say, I'm coming down with something.
So a cold or I think I'm coming down with the flu.
So you're saying that I think I'm getting ill?
It means I'm just starting to feel sick.
And so you could say, I've had a cold for a week.
You wouldn't use the phrase I'm coming down with in this situation.
You'd only use it when you're starting to feel sick.
So you could ask your boss, I think I'm coming down with the flu.
Can I go home early?
And I think this is a very useful phrase.
It's very natural to say.
So why don't we listen to a couple of other examples?
Honey will you take my temperature?
I think I'm coming down with something.
You must be coming down with a cold.
Tommy came down with the flu.
So coming down with, coming down with the flu, coming down with a cough, etc.
What's our next phrase?
Well, this one's great.
It's a filler phrase.
So in the meantime.
In the meantime.
So I could say, all right, I'm going to go cook dinner.
In the meantime, Marco, can you please clear the table?
So while you are cooking dinner, I am doing something else.
I'm cleaning the table.
So two things happening at the same time.
So it's a filler, you say.
Because usually it follows another phrase.
So I'm going to be doing this report for a while.
In the meantime, can you just wait here on the sofa, please?
So you're connecting two different actions, two different ideas.
There are some people who really like to do this.
And I might be one of them.
It's called to blow things out of proportion.
And you're going to hear this phrase a lot with native English speakers.
And so to blow things out of proportion, well, it pretty much means that you're exaggerating
or you're making a really big deal out of something that's not very serious.
So for example, if you come over to my house and you break a glass and I start freaking
out and yelling at you because you broke my glass.
I say, Marco, you're blowing things out of proportion.
I'll just buy you a new one.
It's not that serious.
So don't exaggerate.
And you can say like this with siblings, spouses or bosses who react very seriously.
So you can say, hey, stop.
Stop yelling like you're blowing things out of proportion.
This is not a really big deal.
So blowing things out of proportion.
Let's not do that.
Let's listen to our dialogue for the last time and then we'll be back.
I think you have chicken pox.
Well, in the meantime, you're a biohazard.
So Catherine, have you ever had the chicken pox?
I did.
I have very, very clear memories of when I was a child and I had the chicken pox because
I believe it was Thanksgiving and I was about four or five years old.
And I didn't have an appetite, so I was not hungry.
And all I could do was itch and drink.
And so I still have little scars like you mentioned from where I couldn't stop myself
from scratching my little marks.
And well, why does the little boy say that he's going to go take an oatmeal bath?
An oatmeal bath.
Well, this is one of the home remedies, one of the home cures for the itchiness.
So it doesn't make your chicken pox go away, but it does make your skin feel better because
it's very calming and smooth.
So you can have some creams or some lotions, but other people like to take an oatmeal bath.
So then you're not itching anymore.
But it's gross because you're sitting in oatmeal.
It is kind of gross.
Have you had the chicken pox?
I didn't know because I couldn't remember.
So actually my brother had it recently, so I was afraid that I didn't get it, but I called
my mom.
She said I got it, so I'm good.
You're safe.
So that's the thing, right?
You can only get it once.
You don't have a problem.
Well, we're curious to know, have you had the chicken pox?
And if you did, was it really itchy or were you a lucky one and it wasn't so bad?
So let us know on our website, englishpod.com.
And if you ever had any other common childhood illnesses like the mumps or the measles, right,
you can also tell us about that.
Enter a culture in which a child lives above the parents by invoking a parenting image
of their childhood.
So the clan really started out by messing around with the cards they thought about
Hello everyone and welcome back to another edition here at EnglishPod.
And my name is Catherine and today we've got a great upper intermediate level lesson for
you all about animal and human rights.
So it's a very debatable topic.
People want to protect animals, mistreatment of animals.
And this is what we're going to talk about today, protecting animals and giving them
rights.
Do you think animals have rights?
Eh, well, you know, I think we could leave that for the end.
I don't want to, you know, influence the argument here in today's dialogue.
But yeah, as you've said, I think it's very much a topic that people can go both ways
on.
So why don't we listen to our dialogue as two people discuss animal rights and let's
get their opinions on things.
You should have seen the TV show that was on last night.
The topic it covered was really interesting.
Animal rights.
Do you really believe in that?
If they're going to focus on something, they should do it on civil rights.
Yes, but we can't deny that animals are vulnerable, defenseless and are completely at the mercy
of human beings.
I understand your point, but we continue to have transgressions against human rights.
If so much attention weren't devoted to the topic of animals, we would then concentrate
more on saving a human being instead of protecting a koala.
You can't compare apples and oranges.
I believe that both topics are important and that we can't ignore them.
The mistreatment of animals can cause a great environmental imbalance.
I believe that governments should prohibit activities like poaching.
Well, you are right on that point.
This is the reason that I don't buy leather and I try to buy synthetic products.
At least you're doing your part.
My contribution is to have a pet in the house that I treat like a member of the family.
As long as you don't treat it better than your wife, it's fine.
All right, we're back and both of them have good points, right?
In favor and against.
As you said, they also talk about human rights, which is also a very important topic.
But before we discuss this topic, why don't we take a look at the language that was used
All right, so in Language Takeaway, our first word today is vulnerable.
Okay, vulnerable is a great word.
It's a way to describe something.
And so something is vulnerable if it can't really protect itself.
So you are in danger of being hurt.
So you're vulnerable.
Now, this isn't only used for animals, right?
It can be like an army is vulnerable if they don't have strong defenses on the borders.
Or my emotions.
I'm feeling vulnerable because I just had a really horrible week and I'm really depressed
and I'm emotionally vulnerable.
So vulnerable.
And they also talked about transgressions against human rights.
All right, so a transgression is a thing.
And transgression is like doing something harmful to or against someone or something.
So a transgression, it's a noun.
So is it doing something in a bad way?
It's always negative.
It's not positive, right?
And so in many prayers, for example, in the Christian faith, you say, you know, Lord,
forgive me for my transgressions, for having kind of crossed the line from doing good things
to bad things.
So you're doing bad things.
So that's a good way of putting it, to cross the line, to kind of go beyond where you should.
All right, so transgressions.
And now another very serious problem in the world is poaching.
That's one of the things that they said they should control, poaching.
You might have heard this word in a different context because it does have another meaning,
but I'm just going to explain the one meaning here that we're talking about, which is killing
animals, especially for sport or for selling their skins and their furs.
So that's poaching.
What's the difference between poaching and hunting?
Hunting can be legal.
Poaching is illegal.
So that's the main difference.
Hunting is usually for sport.
You hunt either for food or for sport, right?
Legal hunting.
But poaching is usually you want to sell, like you said, the fur or the skins or something.
Or the tusks on rhinos or something like that.
All right, so poaching.
And then they talked about synthetic products.
So what is a synthetic product?
Well, synthetic product is something that is man-made.
So it's not natural in that it doesn't come from the earth.
Cotton is a natural product and plastic, for example, is synthetic or another example.
Or nylon.
Nylon is a really good synthetic product.
And so people who don't want to use animal products like wool or leather, they prefer
to use synthetic products.
And I think maybe you've heard this in clothing.
It's called synthetic fibers, right?
Like nylon or polyester.
These are all the words that we have for language takeaway today.
So why don't we move on now to a couple of very interesting phrases that we saw in the
dialogue now in Fluency Builder.
Okay, this first phrase is, well, it's a common one, but it's definitely not used in very
happy circumstances.
We say that something or someone is at the mercy of someone else.
Okay, so animals are at the mercy of human beings.
Mercy?
So basically, it means that the animals, in this case, don't have control of what's going
So human beings are the ones that control everything.
So if I decide to kill them, then they are at my mercy, at my will, at my whim.
And so you could say, I'm at your mercy, Marco, please just like help me out with this.
It's like you're the one in control.
You're the one who can help the situation.
Will you help?
I'm at the mercy of someone.
And then they were talking and debating this thing and an interesting comparison came up.
All right, you're going to hear this all the time in English.
It's not just a funny little phrase that the person uses.
It's a very common idiom.
And so we say, it's like apples and oranges or you can't compare apples and oranges.
And this is essentially saying, these are two different things.
Completely different.
So I can't compare him and her because it's apples and oranges.
They're two different things, two different people.
Because that's what in the movie, you said they were like peas and carrots.
They just go together well.
They just go together.
Does that make sense?
Forrest Gump was a little bit strange like that.
But I think the meaning is that if I say that's a big apple and I say that's a small
apple, they're all apples so I can compare them.
But I say this is a really big orange and that's a really big apple.
Well, they're different.
You just can't compare them.
And towards the end, the person said that you're doing your part.
You're doing your part.
Yeah, so this is a hard one to understand sometimes because it's not like a part in
a play.
It's more like a part in society.
You're helping make society or culture or civilization better.
So you're contributing.
So for example, what would be an example of a person doing their part towards society?
Well, for example, I don't own a car.
I ride my bike and it's my way of doing my part to help the environment.
So I can't, obviously, I can't buy a factory that's very green or I can't do all these
things to change the world.
So I'm going to do small things that those are my way of doing my part.
So like another example would be recycling.
That's doing your part.
Or in this case, the person bought only synthetic products, nothing made from nature.
So very interesting phrases.
Why don't we listen to our dialogue for the last time and then we'll be right back.
Yes, but we can't deny that animals are vulnerable, defenseless, and are completely at the mercy
All right, so a debatable topic, animals and animal rights.
Well, I'll say this.
I would be a hypocrite if I said that it's bad to hurt animals because I'm a meat eater.
I like to eat meat and I like to wear leather.
But I do think it's bad to mistreat animals.
So I try to buy free-range chicken or meat from places I know that treat the animals
well and I definitely disagree with poaching and with using animals, especially endangered
animals for money and cash purposes.
And so that's my position.
But what's yours?
I mean, I know you eat meat too.
No, yeah, of course.
And I think even though protection of animals is a very important topic and you don't want
the mistreatment of these little creatures that are very vulnerable to us because we're
smarter than them in the end.
But I think also it has to do a lot with superstition sometimes and kind of mystical and magical
For example, people killing rhinos because they believe that the rhino horn has amazing
curing properties or the same thing with elephant tusks and stuff like that.
So it also involves this certain aspect that people almost don't know any better.
They just truly believe that these things actually work or that they will help them.
So they don't consider the, like in the dialogue said, the imbalance that they create in the
environment or the consequences.
Or there might be some very serious evolutionary consequences that we cannot even imagine.
And so, you know, things change kind of over time, sometimes quickly and sometimes slowly.
But if we force change really quickly, who knows what the results are going to be.
It might be really negative for us.
And that's what we want to know now.
What do you think about these topics?
Because in the end, the environment, animals, they're all connected.
If you wipe out all the foxes in a forest, then you're going to have too many snakes
running around, right?
So what do you think?
Come to EnglishPod.com where you can leave all your questions, comments or suggestions.
And we're always there to help out.
So we hope to see you there.
And until next time, everyone, goodbye.
Hello, everyone, and welcome back to another lesson here at EnglishPod.
And today, Marco, you and I are talking about movies, right?
We're talking a little bit about movies, but mostly we're having a big argument.
Okay, I kind of like arguments.
Lots of great words and phrases for you to learn here in English.
But we've got an upper intermediate level lesson with some people who are not getting
along very well.
It's a couple, a guy and a girl, and they're having a fight, as couples do.
So we're going to be learning a lot of the different language that they are using in
this very heated debate.
So let's listen to this dialogue for the first time, and then we'll be right back.
Wow, that terrible movie is finally over.
Next time I'm picking the film because I don't want to end up seeing a chick flick.
Well, you should have picked.
In the end, you always complain about everything.
Not everything.
Just this film.
Even the title was ridiculous.
And it's so long.
Those were the two and a half most wasted hours of my life.
So much so that I'm thinking about asking them to give me my money back.
I'm thinking of taking you back home.
I thought we could have a nice evening, but you're always so negative.
I'm only complaining about a movie that I could have rented or bought and then thrown
in the garbage.
You see, that's what I'm talking about.
I can't stand your sarcastic jokes anymore.
Next time, go with your gay friend who is more in touch with his feelings.
Well, he's more of a man than you are.
At least he appreciates love stories.
Love stories?
More like one night stands.
Don't criticize Mario, or else I'll start on those fat, drunk friends of yours.
They're no saints.
My friends?
Fat?
What about those whales you call friends?
You're unbearable.
You can walk home.
I'm leaving.
I think the guy was exaggerating a little bit.
I think they were both exaggerating.
You know, by the end of an argument, both people are saying things that maybe they don't
mean.
I think we'll talk a little bit more about this towards the end of the show, but now,
why don't we take a look at language takeaway.
Alright on language takeaway today, we have four words and the first one that you probably
saw in the very first sentence is a chick flick.
Chick flick.
So, first of all, the word chick means a woman.
It's slang and it's not very nice.
It's not very nice.
Well, I mean, between guys, you would use it as like, oh, this chick or that chick,
but you wouldn't really walk up to a girl and call her a chick, right?
No, you wouldn't say, hey, chick, what's up?
Not something you want to say.
So chick is a slang word for a girl or a woman and a chick flick is a girl's movie.
So a flick is a movie.
Another slang word.
So this is the slang phrase for flick.
So hey, Marco, what flicks are showing at the movie theater?
So movies.
So in the chick flick is usually a romantic movie, a drama, something that's very, um.
Like beaches.
Beaches is a chick flick.
I don't know if you've ever seen that.
I've never seen it.
So he's just not that into you is one of those new chick flicks.
Or like how to lose a guy in 10 days.
How to lose a guy in 10 days or the devil wears Prada.
Bride Wars.
Lots of chick flicks.
I've actually never seen any one of these except how to lose a guy in 10 days.
I've actually only seen that one.
So chick flick is a girl's or woman's movie.
And next up we have a word, sarcastic.
We're talking about sarcastic jokes.
So sarcastic jokes or somebody being sarcastic.
God, Marco, you're always so sarcastic.
So what would sarcasm sound like?
Um, yeah, he's really funny.
So it's not really what you're saying.
It's kind of how you're saying it.
So it's kind of like by saying, he's really funny.
You're saying, yeah, he's a funny guy.
But if I say, oh, he's really funny.
I'm saying he's not funny.
He's being mean or he's a jerk.
Sarcasm is kind of one of those things that it's a little bit difficult to learn how to
do or to actually get it right.
Especially in English.
Marco, great explanation.
That's the way it goes.
You're so funny.
So you're amazing.
You should go to you.
You went to sarcasm school.
So my parents like to say.
You can be really mean, Catherine.
So apart from being sarcastic, you can criticize someone.
Like you're ever critical.
Sorry, I'll stop.
You're really into character right now.
So critical to criticize someone is to complain about them or to say that the things that
they do are not very good.
So you can criticize a person or a movie.
So this movie wasn't very good.
It wasn't funny.
The actors were bad.
It was really long.
These are criticisms.
Criticisms.
Well, and then moving on, the girl was finally tired of the guy and his complaints.
And she said he's unbearable.
Gosh, you're unbearable.
So the root of this word is to be able to like to stand something, to bear it.
And so if you're unbearable, something is unbearable, you just can't stand it.
So you're tired of it.
You can't stand it.
She thinks he's so unbearable, she makes him get out of the car.
And she leaves.
She said you can walk home.
So that's an unbearable person, right?
So we took a look at those four main words here in our dialogue.
Let's move on now to some of the phrases that we found in Fluency Builder.
This first one's a common one, especially when we talk about women and men and the relationship
between women and men.
We say about men that maybe they should be more in touch with their feelings or their
feminine side.
Okay, so if you're saying to be more in touch with your feminine side, what exactly are
you saying?
It's a good question.
Well, what you're saying is that you want to be able to express your feelings more or
you want to be able to understand more about your feminine side or something like this.
So to be in touch with is more about yourself.
It's about self-reflection and self-understanding.
So you could say, I'm a very serious person, but I want to make some changes in my life.
So I'm trying to be more in touch with my inner child.
Your inner child.
So to be in touch with, and it's usually related to feelings, to something intangible.
Or to behavior.
To behavior.
Moving on now, a heated phrase, a one night stand.
Oh, I'll let you explain this one, Marco.
So a one night stand is a casual and very quick temporal encounter that's usually a
sexual encounter.
It's romantic, right?
So it can be between two different people.
They meet each other one night.
They have a relationship for one night only, and then they never see each other again.
So it's casual.
It's casual.
So yeah, you would see this.
You see this a lot in shows like, you know, Sex in the City and all that stuff.
Yeah, they have a lot of one night stands in that show.
So a one night stand.
And well, related to this, the girl was criticizing his friends, and she said, they're no saints.
So we can say this in many different ways.
He's no saint.
She's no saint.
Or I'm no saint.
You're no saint.
So a saint is a good person.
It's a word that we use in religion to say someone who's like Mother Teresa, or someone
who's just really good and kind.
Doesn't commit any sins.
And so to say, I'm no saint is to say, well, I do bad things, or I say bad things.
I'm not perfect.
So he or they, they're no saints.
They do bad stuff too.
So that's the way that you would use, he's no saint, they're no saints.
So I think now we should listen to our dialogue for the last time, and we'll be right back.
Not everything, just this film.
Next time, go with your gay friend who's more in touch with his feelings.
Don't criticize Mario, or else I'll start on those fat drunk friends of yours.
Good luck.
All right, so, Catherine, is this an argument that you would say is typical among couples?
Or maybe people that are probably about to break up?
Not couples that are happy, I would say.
But yeah, you definitely have people who are...
Well, I guess it's kind of the battle of the sexes, right?
You have people who are different genders and so they don't always understand each other.
You know, you want to have your girlfriends as a girl and your girlfriends behave and
talk in a certain way together and guys do the same thing but with their friends.
And so sometimes you have these clashes, these interactions that are negative and you know
when people are upset with each other, they say mean things.
And especially I think in this case, they don't really like each other's friends.
And that's a kind of a common thing.
Like a guy doesn't like his girlfriend's friends because maybe they gossip too much or something
And the same thing with the girls, right?
Because a guy's friends maybe drink too much.
Drink too much, play too many card games.
They're single.
So I think a lot of times these problems also have to do with the fact that like when a
girl is with her girlfriend, she maybe acts differently.
Or when a guy is with his guy friends.
And so that's weird sometimes for the relationship because you see your partner acting differently
with other people.
So, do you like your boyfriend or girlfriend's friends?
Do you get in fights about this kind of stuff?
Or you know what?
The in-laws.
Oh, that's a whole another situation.
That's a whole another situation.
Alright, so we want to hear from you and also if you have any questions or comment suggestions,
come to EnglishPod.com and you can leave it on our lessons page or you can email us at
EnglishPod at PraxisLanguage.com.
We hope to see you on the website in the near future.
Please get in touch with us.
That's all for today.
So bye-bye.
Today, we are taking a look at a guy who is a little bit too afraid of people in general.
There's a good word for this in English, someone who's almost too afraid all the time, someone
who is overly cautious.
We call this person paranoid.
Okay, so if you are paranoid, you think that everyone wants to hurt you or that everyone
is out to get you.
Wait, did you hear that?
No, I didn't.
Someone at the door.
Marco, can you check that?
Okay, that's paranoid.
You know, you're always hearing voices and noises and things.
Yeah, so a paranoid, somebody that is paranoid.
All right, so why don't we listen to this dialogue for the first time and see what this
person is all paranoid about.
There he is again.
Dan, Dan, dude, you have to come over to my house right now.
Just get over here.
Come in, quickly.
So since when is your house a bank?
I mean, what's up with the four locks and iron bars on your windows?
Security Dan, security.
You can never be too safe, you know.
A lot of sickos out there.
Just the other day, they caught that peeping Tom red handed, had a high power telescope
and binoculars by his window.
What's the matter with you?
Why are you acting all paranoid?
Paranoid?
I'm not paranoid.
I'm cautious.
You see, Dan, we have to be on guard at all times.
People just invade your privacy as if they knew you.
Telemarketers, solicitors, even your bank, they have way too much information.
I like to keep everything on a need to know basis.
Okay, well, what did you want to see me about?
You're being watched.
Be careful, Dan.
So, yeah, I think this guy is a little bit too cautious.
I would have to agree with you and I would go so far as to call him paranoid.
But there's a lot of great stuff in this dialogue that we can use in a lot of different situations.
So let's take a look at some of these new words in today's language takeaway.
All right, the first word on language takeaway today is sicko.
Sicko is also the name of a movie that was a documentary famous in America by Michael
Moore actually.
But a sicko in this context means someone who is a bit weird in a bad way.
So if you tell somebody you're sick, but like in that tone, right, you're saying you're
sick, you're a sick person.
You're gross.
You're saying you're gross.
So people who have inappropriate humor, who make jokes about not so nice things.
Yeah, they're sick.
But in this case, sickos are people who maybe like to hurt other people, people who are
a little bit crazy, people who are not normal.
So it's not a nice way of calling someone crazy, right?
If you say, oh, he's a sicko, it's not really nice.
It's a way of saying that you're almost scared of this person because they're kind of weird
and almost they have problems.
So that's a sicko.
Moving on to our next word.
We saw that the guy was afraid of telemarketers.
So what are these guys?
Well, we've got two words being put together here, tele and market.
So tele, like telephone, telephone, over communication.
So they're not in person.
They're people who call you up and market things.
They try to sell you stuff over the phone.
So this is very common.
You get a phone call on your cell phone and they ask you if you're happy with your long
distance calling plan or if you need new TV cable or something like that.
And they always call during dinner or late at night, which drives me nuts.
So these are telemarketers.
These are people who call you trying to sell things to you.
And very similar to these is a solicitor.
But the big difference here with solicitors and telemarketers is that solicitors actually
go to your house.
They knock on your door.
So they're also called door to door salesmen or saleswomen.
Door to door salesmen.
They go from door to door trying to sell things.
But in this case, a solicitor is someone who comes to your house to try to get you to do
something, to buy something.
And moving on to our next word, we have a peeping Tom.
We heard this a little bit earlier in the dialogue.
And a peeping Tom is again a negative thing to say about someone.
A peeping Tom, well, the word peep means to look, but kind of like, yeah, it's a quick
look.
A peeping Tom is a person who spies on other people.
So a synonym of a peeping Tom would be a voyeur.
A voyeur.
So someone who, without getting caught, tries to look at other people while they're in their
homes.
And so it's really bad because it's usually inappropriate.
It's usually people who are watching women get undressed or...
So a peeping Tom is just an informal way of saying a voyeur or somebody who is spying on
So those are the words for today in Language Takeaway.
Let's listen to our dialogue again and then we'll be right back.
Security, Dan!
Security!
Just the other day, they caught that peeping Tom red-handed.
Had a high-power telescope and binoculars by his window.
I'm not paranoid!
I'm cautious!
Telemarketers, solicitors, even your bank.
They have way too much information.
I like to keep everything on a need-to-know basis.
Well, what did you want to see me about?
You're being watched!
Now we're back and we had some interesting phrases in the dialogue.
The first one being, you can never be too safe.
Alright, so this is a common mom phrase.
You often hear mothers say this when they're sending their kids off to school or whatever.
They say, don't talk to strangers and the kid says, well, why not?
You can never be too safe.
It's good to err on the side of caution.
So it's okay to be extra, extra safe or extra cautious, just in case.
You never know what's going to happen, so it's better to be cautious than not.
And that's what this person is saying.
He's saying, well, security, it's important.
You never know what might happen.
Is there another way that we can combine it?
Like you can never be too careful?
Basically, the same thing.
Same thing.
We're going to talk about this peeping Tom, this person that they caught.
They caught him red-handed.
We caught you red-handed.
Or he's been caught red-handed.
It's a very colorful phrase and I don't just mean that because we're calling him red-handed,
but to catch red-handed means to catch someone while they're doing something wrong.
So if I see you breaking into someone's house and I say, Marco, stop.
I'm catching you.
Stop now.
I just caught you red-handed.
You saw me doing the act.
And another way of saying this is you caught him with his hand in the cookie jar.
And this is another great phrase.
You can imagine a child who sees the cookies in a very special jar on the counter in the
kitchen and mom says, don't eat the cookies.
Well, the child goes into the kitchen and sees the cookies and opens the jar and puts
his hand in the jar and then mom comes and says, caught you.
That's a boy with his hand or a child with their hand in the cookie jar.
So it's the same thing.
I can say, I caught you with your hand in the cookie jar.
Or you were caught red-handed.
And our last phrase for today is you are on a need to know basis.
This is a great one.
This is often said in spy movies, I think.
So we say you're on a need to know basis.
That means that if you really need to know something, then I will tell you.
But if not, I won't.
So you only have the information that is necessary.
No more or less.
You're on a need to know basis.
So I say, tell me, Marco, tell me what happened.
I want to know.
And I can say, no, no, you're on a need to know basis and you don't need to know this.
So a need to know basis, as you say, very popular among spy movies and government movies
and stuff like that.
Conspiracy movies.
So let's listen to this dialogue for the very last time and we'll be right back.
Come in quickly.
Security, Dan security.
You know, a lot of sickos out there.
Just the other day, they caught that heaping Tom red handed, had a high power telescope
So the guy's a little bit paranoid.
There's another word for this as well.
Similar, right?
It's schizo.
Schizophrenia is a disease and a lot of people have it and it's not too uncommon, but a popular
slang word to say someone's crazy is schizo.
So if you guys remember this movie, A Beautiful Mind, it's all about this famous mathematician.
He's named John Nash.
And well, he was a genius.
He came up with game theory and a lot of subsequent usage of this for economy, for many things.
But it was proven that he was a schizophrenic, right?
A paranoid schizophrenic.
So not only did he kind of have experienced reality in different ways, but he's also paranoid.
So he was afraid that the government was trying to kill him.
And so he was, he was irrationally afraid of everything going on around him.
And it made him very unsafe because he could hurt himself or hurt other people.
And the interesting thing about this is that there is no actual cure for it.
You just learn to cope and live with it.
So you never really get cured.
You just kind of live with it.
Learn how to understand what's real and what's not.
It's a great movie also, by the way, if you've never seen it or you get a chance to watch
And that's all the time we have for today.
So if you have any questions, doubts or comments, please come to our website, EnglishPod.com
and we're there to answer them.
Yeah, we hope to see you there.
And until next time, English Poddies.
So Marco, today we're talking about rent and housing.
We're actually going to be moving.
We're going to be going to a new apartment or a new house.
And so we're going to look at all the words related to this because sometimes it can be
a real hassle, right?
It can be really difficult.
Well, you love moving, right?
You were telling me how much you love moving your stuff and negotiating a new lease.
Well, I like the negotiation of the lease, but not the moving aspect.
No, I don't think anyone likes moving.
Actually, I do like it at times because then you can just throw away so many things that
you have no need for and you wouldn't throw away unless you moved.
So let's go check out today's dialogue to find out what happens to the characters.
Okay, that's fine.
My lease is up.
I have to move.
Can't you renew it?
The owner apparently is selling this place to make way for the construction of a parking
lot.
Well, I can help you pack.
We should start looking for a new place for you ASAP.
I think I might move in with my parents for a couple of months until I can find something.
You know how hard it is to find a decent place around here.
I'm going to have to put most of my stuff in storage for a while.
Well, let me know if there's anything I can do to help out.
Actually, would you mind looking after my pet tarantula and snake for a couple of weeks?
So well, it's not much of a big deal.
I guess if you have your parents nearby, you can just move back in with your parents.
Easier said than done.
We'll get to that in a little bit, but let's take a look at the words that are used today
All right, so this first one is an important one because generally when you're looking
for a house or an apartment, there are two things you can do.
You can buy a house or you can lease a house or apartment.
So lease here, Marco.
It's basically to rent, right?
It's a contract where you agree to pay a monthly or a quarterly fee for using that house or
apartment.
So do you own your apartment or do you lease it?
No, mine, I lease.
I am not a homeowner yet.
So owning a home is a lot more expensive at one kind of period where you have to just
pay in and you have maybe a mortgage.
But leasing is just a monthly fee, like you said.
So in this case, they had to leave because their lease was expired.
So you can, at the end of a lease, do one of two things.
You can stop and you can find a new apartment or you can renew your lease.
And that's our next word.
To renew your lease basically means to?
To continue.
And this is actually a good word because it can be used with any contract because really
a lease is a kind of contract.
And so I can say, I renewed my job contract.
Or maybe a magazine subscription.
You renewed your magazine subscription.
It's a way of saying that you've committed to paying for the next six months or one year.
Well, and after that, as we said, the person decided to move in with the parents.
So move in.
Move in.
Well, we can say he moved his car.
He put it in a different place.
But to move in is actually to change houses or to change apartments.
And you're literally moving your things and you're moving your clothes and you're moving
into a new home.
So you're living in a new place.
So in this case, this person is going to live with the parents.
And our next word is when you have to move, you have to pack.
So you can pack a lot of things.
In this case, you're packing a box with all of your belongings, your books and your pillows
and all that.
But you can also pack a suitcase or you can pack luggage.
So packing is putting things into something so that you can move them.
So you can carry them or take them somewhere.
So in this case, you have to pack your things, put them in boxes to take them to your new
And our last word is an acronym when you said ASAP.
Snap, snap.
ASAP, Marco.
Describe this for us quickly.
So ASAP is an acronym for as soon as possible.
So you often see this in the office on envelopes or emails.
So please respond ASAP.
This means please respond right away.
As soon as you can.
So five great words that we've just taken a look at.
Let's listen to our dialogue again and we'll be right back.
That's fine.
All right, we're back and we have a couple of different phrases for you.
Our first one's a little bit unusual.
We heard the phrase, my lease is up.
So Marco, let's talk about this phrase, to be up.
So if something is up, as in this case, the lease, it means it's expired.
It's finished.
So it's over.
So it's like, our time is up.
If we have a meeting.
So that's all the time I have, time to go away.
Time is up.
So it's always related to time or maybe a contract, as in this case, or your lease is
So it means over or finished.
So moving on to our second phrase.
To make way for.
So this is a great one.
This often makes me think of kings and queens in the old days.
They say, make way for the king.
So you have to get out of the way.
So they try to clear some space for them to move because there's too much stuff in the
And so in this case, the owner of the apartment with the guy was living in is trying to make
some space or make way for a parking lot.
So he's basically going to sell the building or house and build a parking lot instead.
So they are making way for the new parking lot.
They're clearing space.
And this is actually really sad because my childhood home, they destroyed to make way
for a larger, ugly, big house.
It happens all the time.
Now they're making way for malls and big buildings and all of our little houses are destroyed.
And well, moving on to our last phrase, the person asked the friend if he would mind looking
after the pet snake and tarantula.
I would mind.
You don't like snakes or tarantulas?
Well, I don't mind them as long as I don't live with them.
So would you mind?
This is a nice way to start a sentence if you want to ask for a favor, right?
So here's an alternative.
Hey, Marco, can you do this for me?
I could, maybe.
I could say, Marco, would you mind doing this for me?
It's more polite.
It is more polite and it's a little bit gentler.
So it's a nice way of asking someone for a favor.
And that's why this is funny because the favor is not like, would you mind watching my kitty?
The favor is, would you mind watching my poisonous pets?
So would you mind it?
But in the end, the person agreed.
So it works, right?
It does work.
So would you mind, so listeners, would you mind listening to today's dialogue one more
time at its normal speed before we come back to you and talk more about renting an apartment?
All right, so moving in.
Now, you have different stages in your life, right?
When you move out, for example, you move out of your parents' home and you live on your
own and then maybe, like in this case, you would move back in with your parents.
How do you see that happening?
I see it very often.
My brother just moved back in with my parents.
Yeah, I think that it depends on the person, honestly.
I mean, especially because the economy has really been suffering for the last year.
A lot of people are doing this because, you know, in a lot of cities in America, you can
spend a thousand to two thousand dollars a month for an apartment to rent.
And that's a small apartment or a shared apartment.
And so I understand this is a really well, it's a better option now than it was before
because everyone wants independence.
But sometimes you just can't afford it.
And it's a cultural thing because some people move out of their parents' home, maybe for
college.
It's very common in the US for students to study in another city or another state.
And but then maybe coming back home and moving in with your parents or in other cultures,
maybe they don't move out at all.
Maybe they only move out once they're married.
And a lot of people in China, I think in Shanghai specifically, don't move out until don't move
out of their parents' home until they're going to get married.
And it does make sense in many big metropolises, because, as you say, rent is expensive.
Living on your own is expensive.
And, well, you don't have anyone to share those costs with like gas, water, electricity,
even food.
It's cheaper.
More people.
And not to mention a little bit scary living on your own for the first time.
It is a little bit scary.
What about having somebody move in with you, maybe a roommate or a girlfriend or boyfriend?
That's always the big step.
The big commitment.
You're in a relationship and you ask your partner to move in with you.
The step before marriage, I guess.
There's nothing before that?
Nothing before marriage?
That's pretty much it.
You tell me.
That's all the time we have for today.
But be sure to come to our website, EnglishPod.com.
If you have any questions or any comments about this topic, we would be glad to have
your input on it.
And if you have any suggestions for the step before the step before marriage, please let
us know because we're in the dark on this one.
Stay safe everyone.
Katrina And my name is Katrin.
And today we're talking about one of my least favorite things, Marco.
Marco Mosquitoes.
They're all over the place, especially in summer or near water.
And for me, the worst part is when you are trying to sleep and there's a mosquito that
just keeps on biting you and won't let you sleep.
Katrina You can kind of hear it around your head, you
know, by your ears.
Marco Yeah, around your ear, uh-huh.
Katrina Oh, I hate that.
Or when you just get bitten and you're in bed and it just itches so much you can't sleep.
Marco Itches, and it burns sometimes.
Katrina Yeah, so that's what we're talking about
today, fun stuff.
Let's jump right into this dialogue, and we'll be back in a minute to talk about what's going
The mosquitoes are biting me!
Me too!
I can't stop scratching!
They are everywhere, sneaky little jerks!
I'm going to get you!
Katrina No, I forgot to buy some.
Marco Then we'll have to put up with it.
Katrina We can cover ourselves with beer.
That way, if they bite us, they'll get drunk and fall asleep.
Marco That's, without doubt, the best idea you've
ever had.
Let's do it.
Katrina Run!
They're thirsty for more!
All right, we're back, so let's take a look at some of these words in Language Takeaway.
All right, so as we mentioned, we're going to be talking about mosquitoes and well, these
are just little small insects that suck your blood.
They do and they're very thin and not much to say about them.
They were very important in the movie Jurassic Park if you remember that.
Now, what's the difference between a mosquito and a fly?
Okay, a fly usually is just annoying.
It doesn't suck your blood, but a mosquito does.
It sucks your blood and flies are fatter and like shorter.
And they're big and black and they're black.
And they're green kind of sometimes.
Black and green and they, yeah, they just buzz around.
So mosquitoes actually bite you.
Okay, so a mosquito and a fly.
Now, if a mosquito bites you, you really, really want to scratch.
So you feel like you need to scratch your body because you have this bite.
You know, it's really an allergy and you have a red bump on your arm, a red mark and you
scratch and it gets worse and worse.
And moving on to our next word, mosquitoes have a reputation of being sneaky.
Okay, so you can say sneaky about a lot of things.
And, you know, obviously we're saying mosquitoes are very sneaky.
That means that they can kind of hide and get you when you're not expecting it.
Yeah, because sometimes during the day, you don't really see them in your room, right?
They're hiding or they're in a place where you can't really see them.
And then at night, all of a sudden, they come out.
They come out.
So, and they're very hard to see.
They fly around in a way that's very difficult to catch them or kill them, right?
We could say thieves are very sneaky.
Like a thief is someone who steals something and they like to sneak around and hide in
the dark.
And then when you're not expecting it, they come out and they steal your stuff.
And now what do we do or what do we use in order to prevent mosquitoes from biting us?
This is essential, especially if you're going to the beach.
We bring bug spray.
Bug spray.
So a spray is something that you can usually have in a can that you push a button and it
comes out.
And it's not water, but it keeps the bugs away.
So bug spray keeps bugs away.
Not only mosquitoes, but like flies or any other type of bug.
Now specifically for mosquitoes, you would use maybe a mosquito repellent.
So repellent is, it means something that pushes or keeps away things you don't want.
So something that keeps mosquitoes away is called a mosquito repellent.
And usually it's a cream you put on your arms or legs.
So interesting words that we've just taken a look at.
The mosquitoes are biting me.
I can't stop scratching.
They are everywhere, sneaky little jerks.
Do you have any bug spray?
No, I forgot to buy some.
Then we'll have to put up with it.
We can cover ourselves with beer.
That way if they bite us, they'll get drunk and fall asleep.
That's without doubt the best idea you've ever had.
They're thirsty for more.
So now let's take a look at a couple of different phrases on Fluency Builder.
So the first phrase is very, very common.
The person in the dialogue says that they're going to have to put up with it, put up with
these mosquitoes because they didn't have any bug spray.
So this phrase, to put up with, is really important.
So if you put up with something, it means that you tolerate it.
That means even if you don't want to, you'll still handle it.
You'll still have to deal with it.
You accept it.
So maybe you have a little brother that's very annoying and you just have to put up
with him.
There's no other option.
Or someone says to you, you're just going to have to put up with it.
Or you say, I won't put up with it anymore.
I won't handle this anymore.
I'm done.
So I think this is a great phrase for us to take a look at a couple of different examples.
I can't put up with the noise any longer.
Turn that music down.
If you can put up with the smell, then stinky tofu is actually very tasty.
I've had to put up with him for too long.
I want a new roommate.
And after this, we've got another phrase.
We're talking about beer.
And so the person says, oh, I have an idea.
Instead of bug spray, we can cover ourselves with beer.
So to cover yourself or cover ourselves.
So it means that we put it all over us.
So you could even cover yourself with bug spray.
So every part of your body, you put bug spray on.
Head to toe.
Now, you can cover yourself under a tree maybe.
Or you can cover yourself with a blanket.
So to cover yourself, to completely hide under something.
And finally, we have the response to this idea, the answer.
The person says, oh, without a doubt, that means absolutely or definitely.
So there is no doubt.
It is true or it is certain.
So a doubt is something that maybe you're not so sure about.
You're not convinced.
But you can say, this is without a doubt the best mosquito spray.
Or this is without a doubt the best cake I've ever eaten.
That means it's definitely the best cake I've ever eaten.
So I think we've covered all the phrases now.
Why don't we listen to our dialogue for the last time and we'll be right back.
Mosquitoes are very annoying, but at times they can be very dangerous, right?
They can.
There are a couple of diseases that can be passed by mosquito bites.
One of them is malaria.
And that's I think pretty common in Southeast Asia and South Asia.
Now there was another situation where people believed that if a mosquito bit a person infected
with HIV or AIDS, they could pass it on to another person.
Aha.
Well, I don't know that that's even possible because there's no AIDS carrying mosquitoes.
But there is another disease called dengue fever.
And this is another very dangerous one.
It's also known as break bone fever.
And I think it's so painful, it feels like your bones are breaking.
And that's where the name comes from.
It's very common in South America as well because we have such a tropical climate that
in the rainforests of Brazil, Peru, Colombia, it's common to see this.
But not so much anymore.
Now they're eradicating it.
So an interesting topic.
Mosquitoes are not only irritating, but can be dangerous.
So if you have any other questions or doubts, please come to our website englishpod.com
and we're there to answer any questions.
So we'll see you on the website.
And until next time everyone, bye bye.
We have an advanced lesson for you today.
Katrina And my name is Katrin and I'm very excited
about this lesson, Marco.
Marco It's very interesting.
It's about a very controversial topic and a very popular person in history, Charles
Darwin.
Katrina That's right.
So he's most famous perhaps for his book, The Origin
of the Species and we're going to be talking a lot about science today.
So put your thinking caps on.
Marco Alright, so without further ado, why don't
we listen to this dialogue for the first time.
Man, it's been forever.
What have you been up to lately?
Charles I've been busy preparing for my exams, not
to mention all the term papers I've had to write.
Katrina Same here.
I'm up to my neck in work, but at least we've got summer holidays after finals.
Where are you headed now?
Charles I'm going to my anthro class.
We've been focusing on Darwin all term since it's the 200th anniversary of his birth
or whatever.
I'm sick and tired of Darwin, Darwin, Darwin!
Katrina What?
How can you not like Darwin?
His work turned thousands of years of ideas about creation on their head.
His theory of evolution revolutionized the fields of biology and anthropology.
Charles I don't like him.
His theory of human evolution and natural selection is full of holes.
It's not as solid as you make it out to be.
Katrina Say that again and you'll make enemies with
half of the academy, not to mention your professors.
Furthermore, the explanation proposed by Darwin about the origin of the species and the process
of natural selection constitutes a grand step towards a coherent understanding of the world
and its very beginnings.
Charles I'm not minimizing his huge contributions
to science.
It's just that his theory reminds me of the conundrum of the chicken and the egg.
Katrina What are you talking about?
Charles Which came first?
The chicken or the egg?
This is a classic logical problem, and I think it applies to Darwin's theory.
How did the very first living organism come to be?
Katrina Interesting.
I think that question is better suited for my philosophy class.
In the meantime, how about we settle this with a duel?
Alright, interesting, they have very different views on Charles Darwin, right?
Katrina They do, and they're both pretty nerdy people.
This is a very nerdy university conversation that's happening between classes.
Charles Yeah, I think maybe they're like PhD candidates
Katrina Perhaps.
Alright, so before we get to talking about some of
the ideas in today's dialogue, let's talk about some of the words and phrases that we
hear to understand better what's going on.
The first part we're going to talk about in today's Language Takeaway.
Charles Alright, on Language Takeaway today, let's
take a look at the first word.
And well, one of the things that many people say is that Darwin revolutionized the fields
of biology.
Katrina And so he revolutionized these because he
pushed them forward.
He made many changes.
He forced changes.
So people had to change the way that they thought about these things.
Charles If you revolutionize something, a topic or an idea, you are creating new knowledge
almost, right?
Katrina Exactly.
You can think of the word revolution, which is a thing.
So you think of the Russian Revolution or the American Revolution.
These are times of change.
So to revolutionize is to bring about change.
Charles Very good.
Alright, so moving forward, they were talking about human evolution.
Human evolution.
What is that exactly?
Katrina Good question.
So you're not a monkey.
I'm not a monkey, but we come from monkeys, right?
Charles So we evolved.
Katrina Right.
So the process is called human evolution.
That means the process by which humans changed forms to become what we are today.
Charles Okay, so you evolve.
Now is it evolution?
You usually think of something positive, right?
Something evolves into something better.
Is it always that way?
Katrina No, we have another word for the negative,
So the positive is to evolve, to become better.
To get worse is to devolve.
Charles Okay.
Katrina Yeah, to devolve, to go back and to kind of
lose things that you had.
Charles Okay, interesting.
And then they were also talking about Darwin's theory of natural selection.
Natural selection.
Katrina Okay, this is maybe one of the things that
Darwin was most famous for, and that's why we've included it in this language takeaway
because it's a key phrase.
It's something you hear people talk about a lot.
Okay, so natural selection is a process again, and it's the process by which stronger animals
survive over time and weaker animals don't.
So if there's a weak species, it can't really survive because it keeps dying and dying,
and then finally there's no more.
And so this is called natural selection because no one's actually choosing what animals will
survive, but it's kind of a natural process.
Charles Right, Mother Nature is choosing it.
So natural selection, this is one of the things that Darwin is most famous for.
And well, as Katrina mentioned, Darwin wrote the book Origin of the Species.
Katrina Right, so origin means beginning.
So the origin of mankind, right?
So there are many different kinds of animals.
You could even say there are many different kinds of like mammals, but there are many
different species within that.
So human beings, black bears, koalas, chimpanzees, these are all species.
And so a species is a classification.
So the origin of the species is kind of a way of telling the story of how all these
things came about.
Charles All right, the origin of the species.
And the last one, this word is kind of strange.
He talked about the conundrum of the chicken and the egg.
Katrina Okay, conundrum.
I love this word.
It's very funny sounding.
Conundrum.
It means like a problem or a riddle or something that's hard to understand.
Charles All right.
So in this case, it's the conundrum of the chicken and the egg, right, which came first.
How else can you use conundrum?
Katrina You could say that maybe there's a situation
that's very strange and hard to understand.
This is quite a conundrum.
Charles This is quite a conundrum we have.
It sounds very fancy, very well educated.
Katrina It does.
So interesting words on language takeaway.
Why don't we move on now to four phrases on Fluency Builder.
All right, on Fluency Builder today, we have four phrases as we said.
So what's the first one?
Katrina The first one is great.
It's very visual.
You say, I'm up to my neck in work.
I'm up to my neck in papers to write.
All right, so this means I have so much stuff to do that you could pile it up and it would
come up to my neck.
Charles So I have as many papers that are almost as
tall as I am.
And so I could say I'm up to my neck in work.
I have no more time to do anything.
Charles Sometimes people also say I'm up to here
and then they'll like, they'll point at their forehead or somewhere around their head.
I'm up to here with your nonsense.
So this is a way of saying that I'm really busy.
Charles Really busy.
I'm really tired of it.
And our next phrase is one that most mothers use.
I'm sick and tired.
Katrina I'm sick and tired of all of your whining.
Go do the dishes and don't complain.
Charles Right.
So it's always, it always goes together.
You are sick and tired.
And sick comes first.
So I'm sick and tired of this.
I'm sick and tired of your bad attitude.
So and that means that you are...
Katrina I'm just tired of it.
I don't want you to have a bad attitude anymore.
I'm just, yeah.
Charles I'm really annoyed by it.
I'm annoyed.
Sick and tired.
And then we saw a phrase that was a little bit separated.
He said the sentence went like this.
So to turn something on its head.
Katrina Like you said, Marco, it's split into two
parts.
So he turned the field of computer science on its head.
So to turn on its head means to completely reverse something, to turn it around.
You think 180 degrees.
And so if biology used to be one way, then Darwin made it completely different.
Charles So we can say that Isaac Newton completely
turned physics on its head with his theory or his findings on gravity.
Katrina And then years and years later, we had Albert
Einstein who turned those theories or who turned that theory on its head with his own
ideas about physics.
So to turn something on its head, to completely change the course of or prove something to
be maybe wrong.
And the last phrase that we have is the person argued that Darwin's theories were full of
holes.
Katrina Okay.
So to say a theory is full of holes is a little bit
different than saying that his pants are full of holes.
Because when you say something is full of holes, maybe they actually have holes.
But a theory is it's an idea.
So it can't have holes.
What you're saying is that it's not completely sound.
It's not without some problems.
And so maybe you're saying that, well, the cookies are gone out of the kitchen, Marco.
And I saw you in the kitchen.
So clearly you ate the cookies.
So I can say that's full of holes because it was me and it was three other people who
were in the kitchen.
So you can't blame me.
Katrina Ah, it could have been the other two people.
So if something is full of holes, it's that it has maybe mistakes or it's still missing
complete evidence to prove it right.
Katrina Or it has bad logic.
Charles Bad logic.
So we've taken a look at a lot of words and different phrases here.
Let's listen to this argument one last time.
I've been busy preparing for my exams, not to mention all the term papers I've had to
write.
I'm going to my anthro class.
We've been focusing on Darwin all term since it's the 200th anniversary of his birth or
I'm sick and tired of Darwin, Darwin, Darwin.
I don't like him.
Say that again and you'll make enemies with half of the academy, not to mention your professors.
I'm not minimizing his huge contributions to science.
This is a classic logical problem and I think it applies to Darwin's theory.
It's interesting, Darwin's theories and his explanations for the origin of species and
life as we know it.
But there is the opposite to this, right?
There is a certain thing called creationism.
There is and this is a big source of controversy, especially in the United States because in
some places people want to teach creationism as well as evolution in schools.
So this is the big question.
Are they still equal as theories or is one theory more proven than the other?
And it is kind of hard to determine which one is better because one is based on faith,
the other one is based more on scientific evidence, right?
So they're not really even on the same scale as we learned before.
That's kind of like apples and oranges, right?
It is and there are some people who would say that we have lots of ways of quote unquote
proving what happened in the past but as long as we weren't there, we never really do know.
And there's always changes in science so how can we be sure that what we know now isn't
false, isn't misunderstanding.
I think for now, this is the best explanation but that doesn't mean that it's the correct
Maybe in a hundred years from now, we'll have another explanation that's much better or
maybe complimentary to this one.
So we want to know what you guys think, come to our website englishpod.com.
We really want to hear your opinions.
What do you think about this topic?
It is a little bit controversial so we really look forward to your comments and any other
questions you may have.
And just a reference, creationism is the idea that God created the world or a superior being
created the world and that everything came from that.
And so let us know what you think.
I am very curious too and that's about it for today.
You're taking off for a walk.
So, as usual, we've got a great dialogue for you today.
And before we get going, I should mention what the topic is.
So, Marco, take it away.
We are actually having a small fight at the office.
Somebody or a coworker is annoying us.
So, you know, sometimes coworkers, you see them every day, they're doing something that's
maybe getting on your nerves.
And you practically live together because you're with each other for eight, nine, ten
hours every day.
Some language related to this topic.
So let's listen to the dialogue for the first time.
Hey, Mary, can you cut that out?
Cut what out?
I'm not doing anything.
The tapping of your pen on your desk.
It's driving me crazy.
By the way, would you mind not slurping your coffee every time you have a cup?
I don't slurp my coffee.
And plus, how can you hear it when you're shouting into your phone all the time?
You've got to be kidding me.
You're complaining about me talking on the phone when you go out for a cigarette break
ten times a day to shoot the breeze?
Look, we have a lot of accumulated anger from working in these conditions.
And it's probably okay to let off steam once in a while.
But it's probably not a good idea to keep it up.
I'm willing to forgive and forget if you are.
Let's call it truce.
I'll try to be more considerate and keep the noise down.
Yeah, I'll try to do the same.
So I was wondering, you want to go out to dinner Friday night?
So yeah, I think this is a common situation, right?
So common, this might even be based on our own lives.
You may not know, but Catherine and I get into fights all the time.
All the time.
All right, so I think there was some interesting words here, but mostly phrases.
So let's start with the words first on language takeaway.
All right, so the first word, as you might have guessed, has to do with eating and drinking.
This is called slurping.
To slurp.
So the noun, the thing is slurping.
And it's very common with people who eat their food quickly.
Like soup.
Yeah, soup or, you know, yeah, or when they're eating soup noodles.
Or sometimes when you have a drink and you're drinking it through a straw, towards the end,
you're just like trying to get the very last part at the bottom.
So yeah, the straw slurps.
Yeah, so slurping, some people really can't stand it.
Sometimes you don't even notice that you're doing it.
No, absolutely not.
All right, so apart from slurping, what else do we have?
We've got a great word here, accumulated.
So a lot of accumulated anger.
The word is a verb, to accumulate.
It means to kind of grow or to become more and more.
So you're like saving it.
Or even it's like building up.
You know, we say this oftentimes in Chicago where it snows a lot in the winter, that there's
a foot of snow accumulated on the ground.
That means there's a lot of snow and every time it snows, it keeps getting bigger.
So to accumulate.
So accumulated anger, your anger is getting bigger and bigger.
Right, because you never tell anyone about your anger.
So it keeps building and it keeps piling up.
Well, towards the end, they said, well, let's call a truce.
So they want to call a truce.
All right, a truce is another word for a peace.
And so this is a way that you can stop fighting and say that you and I have been fighting
for a long time.
We may not come to a deal, but we'll say truce from now on.
We just won't fight.
We won't fight about it.
Brothers and sisters often call truces.
Truce.
And well, if you're calling a truce, you're trying to be more considerate.
Considerate, like you're saying, is a way to be or a way to act.
And considerate often has to do with how you act towards other people.
So it's being nice to other people or thinking about other people's feelings before yourself.
So if you're considerate, then you are maybe more polite.
You think about the other person's feelings before you do anything.
You just say nice little things like please and thank you and I'm sorry.
And these things are all ways of being considerate.
So four great words on language takeaway.
Why don't we move on now to Fluency Builder.
So as we mentioned, this dialogue is very, very rich in a lot of different phrases.
The very first one and the title of the lesson, cut it out.
Cut that out.
So you're not actually saying to cut something with scissors or something.
No, this is, it's a way of saying, can you stop that?
Stop doing that.
Quit it.
Cut it out.
So if someone's doing something that's really annoying to you, it's not very nice to say,
but you can say, hey, cut that out.
Or if someone's doing something mean to someone, like my brother used to hit me, my mom would
say, Peter, cut that out.
So it is a good mom phrase as well.
Moving on to our next phrase.
The guy said that the tapping on the desk was driving him crazy.
To drive someone crazy means to make someone just feel like they're going nuts or, you
know, it just, it makes you kind of angry or frustrated or tense.
But it can also be used like in a romantic sense, right?
That girl drives me crazy.
It means like he can't even think about anything else.
So in this case, what drives you crazy?
When...
I'll tell you what drives me crazy.
When people clip their fingernails and toenails at the office.
I can't believe.
Well, it drives me crazy.
Like for example, when somebody or my brother leaves his clothes lying on the floor in the
living room.
That's annoying too.
So that drives me crazy.
So moving on to our third phrase, this is a pretty big one, but take it as a whole.
So this is, as you said, a fixed phrase.
These words usually go together and it is a perfect example of sarcasm.
So it's a way...
The way you say it is very important.
So I could say, you've got to be kidding me.
What's a good situation for this?
Maybe I get to the airport and I'm running late and I'm really happy that I get there
on time and then I see the flight is delayed seven hours.
Or something I can't believe it or seriously, this isn't... yeah.
Or what bad luck.
So it is a sarcastic phrase, but use it as a whole.
Usually you don't change the subject.
You don't say, you've got to be kidding him.
No, it's always this.
Or you've got to be kidding me.
Different meetings with different inflections.
Different inflections.
Our next phrase is a good one because it doesn't mean what it sounds like.
Okay?
So, to shoot the breeze.
All right?
Shoot means like you can shoot a gun and breeze is like the wind.
But here to shoot the breeze is to have a nice little conversation, just to talk about
So not really do anything, just talk a little bit.
So if we think about this in the context of this sentence, it's, you know, you go out
for your cigarette break 10 times a day to shoot the breeze.
So shoot means you go outside, you just talk about nothing and whatever and it's almost
like you're wasting time just talking.
So shooting the breeze.
You can say, oh, we were just shooting the breeze.
Just have a nice little conversation.
Nothing important.
And our last phrase for today.
Forgive and forget.
Let's forgive and forget.
This is, these words again, like the last phrases go together.
So I could say this to you, Marco.
I say, I know you've been fighting with your brother for 10 years.
I say finally just forgive and forget.
It means just put everything behind you and try and start again.
Forgive the person, forget about it, move on.
I think they're very useful and this is very colloquial English, right?
This is stuff that you're going to hear all the time, but maybe not all together at the
same time.
Definitely though, very helpful for interacting with foreign friends and colleagues.
So let's listen to the dialogue for the last time and we'll be right back.
Plus, how can you hear it when you're shouting into your phone all the time?
10 times a day to shoot the breeze?
Look, we have a lot of accumulated anger from working in these conditions and it's probably
okay to let off steam once in a while, but it's probably not a good idea to keep it up.
So did you ever see the TV show Full House when you were a kid?
It was popular with the Olsen twins and all of those, right?
I think it, so there was an uncle on the show, Uncle Joey, and he always used to say, cut
it out.
And he had like hand motions for it.
And so cut it out as a way to say kind of stop it, quit it.
You're killing me.
It's like he was saying too funny.
And so whenever I hear this phrase, I always think of that early 90s TV show.
Very early 90s.
Well, this whole situation with The Office as well, I think there was a TV show called
The Office, right?
Yeah, there was the British Office and then there was an American version.
And it's also something about office life and how colleagues get on each other's nerves
and they play pranks on each other and everyone's kind of weird.
And everyone drives everyone else crazy.
No, it's funny because once you start working in an office full time, I mean, everyone's
maybe had a little bit of office experience, but when it's full time, you spend more time
with your colleagues than you do with your family.
It's really amazing what makes you crazy, what drives you crazy and what stuff just
doesn't matter.
So this is an interesting topic.
We really want to hear from you guys.
Many of you probably work at an office, so tell us.
So come and tell us what drives you crazier.
Maybe what colleague is driving you mad.
You don't have to use names.
You can just use nicknames if you want.
So we'll be waiting for you at EnglishPod.com.
Leave questions and comments and we'll see you guys next time.
We have an upper intermediate lesson for you today.
So today we're talking about something that everyone who's ever lived away from home has
felt before.
And that's the word we're going to preview today.
The word is homesick.
So let's take a look at that in today's language preview.
So homesick.
If you feel homesick or you are homesick.
Well, yeah, you could say I'm homesick right now.
Or are you feeling homesick?
So it's a word that means I miss my home.
I miss my family.
I'm far away or I haven't seen my family in a long time.
And for some reason you just feel sad.
So it's a feeling.
You feel a little bit depressed.
You feel sad because you're homesick.
So this is what's happening today in our dialogue.
So let's listen to it for the first time.
Tom, how are you?
Hey, we missed you at the party last night.
I didn't really feel like going out.
I guess I'm feeling a little homesick.
We've been through this already.
Look, I know the adjustment was hard when you first got here, but we agree that you're
going to try and deal with it.
I was.
It's just that the holidays are coming up and I won't be able to go home because I can't
afford the airfare.
I'm just longing for some of the comforts of home, like my mom's cooking and being around
my family.
Yeah, it can get pretty lonely over the holidays.
When I first got here, I'd get depressed and nostalgic for anything that reminded me of
I almost let it get to me, but then I started going out, keeping myself busy.
And before I knew it, I was used to it.
I see what you mean, but I'm still bummed out.
Okay, how does this sound?
Let's get you suited up and hit the dance club tonight.
I hear that an awesome DJ is playing and there will be a lot of pretty single girls there.
You know, I could really go for that.
You don't mind being my wingman for tonight?
It'll be fun.
It will be like a boys' night out.
Well, kind of.
I must warn you, though.
Whatever happens, don't let me go on a drinking binge.
Trust me, it's not a pretty picture.
All righty, we're back.
So yeah, I guess he's very homesick.
Very homesick.
And his friend is really worried.
But actually, I think this is common, right?
To be homesick during the holidays, like Christmas, for example.
Oh, man, it's the worst during the holidays because you think of all the traditions and
all the things that you normally do at home and you're not doing them.
So this is something we're going to talk more about a little bit later on.
But let's take a look at some of the language that was used in Language Takeaway.
This first one is key, right?
So when you move away from home or when you move to a new place, you have a period of
adjustment.
So adjustment is kind of finding the right balance or doing something so that you can
kind of feel comfortable.
OK, so you have to adjust to your new life, life away from home.
Or your new environment.
So many times people say, wow, moving to China must be a big adjustment.
So it means there's so many differences that it must take a long time to feel comfortable
So that's adjustment.
Well, we've got this next phrase that's really important, I think, but often gets overlooked.
We say the comforts of home, right?
Comforts of home.
So comfort's pretty easy, right?
Feeling comfortable.
So you have comfort.
But the comforts of home are things that are different with every person.
But those are things that you have at your home or your childhood home or your parents'
home that make you feel good and feel happy.
So they're not only physical things or objects, right?
They can be like your mom's cooking or maybe even just spending time with your family.
Right, or reading the newspaper with your dad or things that you're used to that you
don't have anymore.
And so those are the comforts of home.
I could say, Marco, do you miss the comforts of home in Ecuador?
I mean, do you have anything that's really...
Of course, of course.
I think one of the main things is actually not living in the city because I used to live
in the valley a little bit further away and kind of almost countryside.
So that's one of the comforts of home that I miss.
Oh, you're making me nostalgic and I've never even been.
Well, this is our next word, actually.
Right, nostalgic.
Nostalgic.
It's a feeling.
I'm feeling nostalgic or he's just really nostalgic.
And so to be nostalgic is to kind of think about a time before or think positively about
something that you experienced before.
So it's not usually a bad thing.
It's never a bad thing.
Nostalgia is a good, warm, fond memory of something.
Of something from your past.
So you start thinking of something from your past that maybe brings nice, warm feelings,
maybe a little bit sad because you miss those times, but it's usually thinking about the
past.
So I have nostalgia for my childhood.
I loved, you know, summers in Chicago and it was hot and the kids would play in the
sprinkler and I had my dog and you know, it's a happy feeling.
So nostalgia would be the noun and nostalgic would be the adjective.
And our last word for today on Language Takeaway is bummed out.
Bummed out.
I'm bummed out.
We've got another feeling here.
So we're all full of feelings today.
Bummed out is a sad feeling.
So to be bummed is kind of slang and it means to be sad.
Or disappointed.
Disappointed.
So you come into the office, Marco, and you look a little tired.
I said, are you okay?
Are you bummed out about something?
I can say, yeah, I lost my wallet last night so I'm really bummed out.
So yeah, you feel bummed out when something bad or sad happens.
So let's move on now to a couple of different phrases on Fluency Builder.
This first one is something that you often say to old friends or family.
You know, when you're friends with someone, they go through periods of happiness and sadness.
And so when someone's going through a down period again, you say, oh, we've been through
this already.
Or you know, when you're giving someone advice and they never take your advice, you say,
listen, we've been through this already.
You should know by now that I and then, you know, whatever the advice is.
So this has happened before or we have experienced this before or we already solved this problem
or situation.
You could imagine two bank robbers who are going over their plan for the 10th time and
then one says to the other, hey, we've been through this already.
You should know the plan by now.
So we've been through this already.
They were talking about the adjustments and everything.
And then what other phrase did they use?
Well, the next couple of phrases have to do with the friend's suggestions because she
has a lot of ideas to cheer her friend up, the depressed one.
And the first thing she says is, hey, let's hit the dance club.
Okay, let's hit the dance club or let's hit the dance floor tonight.
So hit in this case doesn't mean like hit.
It doesn't mean you're punching someone.
It means to go to or to do.
So we can say, let's go to the dance club tonight.
Let's hit the dance club.
It doesn't have to be a dance club.
But let's hit that concert tonight.
I really want to go there.
So you can hit pretty much any place, right?
And this is a very kind of spoken language.
So you wouldn't say this in your essays, but it's a good way to talk about plans with
friends.
And our next word actually is kind of interesting because it's very colloquial and it's a wingman.
I can be your wingman tonight.
So wingman, you have to think about wing meaning side, not like a bird's wing.
So a wing means side and a wingman is a guy who will go with you to a bar or a club to
kind of help you find a date or a girl or someone to talk to.
So this person, this wingman usually keeps you company and helps you decide maybe what
girl to talk to or maybe even introduces you to someone at a club or at a restaurant or
bar or whatever.
And, you know, the key is that people don't like to go alone to bars, right?
Because you feel sad and then you look weird because you're all alone.
And the same is true for girls.
And so if a guy wants to go to a bar and he sees two girls, well, he has to have a friend
to talk to the other girl.
So wingman also helps in that sense.
He helps balance things.
So there's a whole science behind the wingman.
I'm sure if you look it up on Wikipedia, you'll find 10 pages of information.
So since they are going out tonight, they said it could be boys night out.
And this is another phrase you hear all the time, especially among young people, boys
night out and girls night out.
And so, you know, sometimes you spend a lot of time with your husband or your wife or
your boyfriend or girlfriend and you just want to have some time with your friends.
And so you call this girls night for me, girls night out.
You just go out and you do girl things.
Guys night out, you do other things.
And so in this case, it's girls only or guys only.
Boys night out is only guys.
And that's why this is funny because it's the girl who says, hey, let's have boys night
And she's not really a boy.
And well, he agreed to go out and everything, but he warned her about him going on a drinking
binge.
Now, this is important.
A lot of people who are depressed or sad when they drink, they drink a lot.
And so binge means to do something in excess, to do it too much.
So a drinking binge would be drinking alcohol in excess, too much.
So getting drunk right away.
And it's not healthy and we do not condone it.
So we're going to stop with the phrases in this dialogue today.
I think we should listen to it one more time and we'll be right back.
Look, I know the adjustment was hard when you first got here.
But we agree that you're going to try and deal with it.
I see what you mean.
But I'm still bummed out.
I must warn you, though, whatever happens, don't let me go on a drinking binge.
So speaking of homesick and holidays, do you actually get very depressed or homesick during
Christmas?
Well, my family has a lot of Christmas traditions that are just really kind of wonderful and
we do them every single year.
And so the first time I spent Christmas away, I was living in Italy and it was kind of similar.
But then the second time was when I was living in China.
And China was just not the same.
No oven, so no Christmas cookies.
And no granny who, you know, pours vodka and eats meatballs.
And like my mom not running around the kitchen.
You feel lonely and then all of a sudden you get a phone call.
And it's the entire family and they're all together eating, having an amazing Christmas
and they think it's going to help you feel less homesick, but it makes you feel more
homesick.
So you definitely have nostalgia for those days during the holidays.
But what about you?
I rarely get homesick, but yeah, sometimes during Christmas or New Year's, New Year's
we usually have more unique traditions in Ecuador.
So it's very fun.
The family gets together, we dance, we eat.
So but yeah, I've been away from home so long that I rarely get homesick anymore.
But it's great to go back and spend time with the family.
So after my visit to Ecuador, then I might get homesick for a little while, but then
it goes away.
Well, you guys should tell us.
Do you ever feel homesick?
And if you do, what do you feel homesick about?
What do you miss?
Maybe mom's cooking, maybe family, maybe the comforts of home.
Yeah, so we're curious to hear your answers.
We have a website, EnglishPod.com.
You can of course also leave us questions.
We're happy to answer those.
Hello, everyone and welcome back to another lesson here at EnglishPod.
Katerina And my name is Katerina and today we're
talking about a topic very close to my heart, music.
Marco That's right.
We're going to be talking about music and more specifically, we are going to talk about
musical instruments that you would use in a band.
And so some people like to make their own music, get together, hang out, play music
together, so that's what we're talking about today.
We've got a new band that's going to start and before we get going, we've got a word
to talk about and let's check this out in today's vocabulary preview.
Marco All right.
So as I mentioned, we are going to talk about instruments.
Katerina Instruments.
So you could say musical instruments, but what is an instrument generally speaking?
Marco Basically, it's similar to a tool, right?
So an instrument is something that you use to help you realize a task.
In this case, musical instruments is more specific, right?
So we're talking about things that you use to make music.
A piano for example.
Marco Is a musical instrument.
Katerina Or the drums.
So this is what we're going to be looking at today in the dialogues.
Katerina I'm forming a music band.
Marco Do you already know how to play an instrument?
Katerina Uh, yeah.
I told you a thousand times that I'm learning to play the drums.
Now that I know how to play well, I would like to form a rock band.
Marco Aside from yourself, who are the other members
of the band?
Katerina We have a guy who plays guitar and another
who plays bass.
Although we still haven't found anyone to be our singer.
You told me that you had some musical talent, right?
Marco Yes, I'm a singer.
Katerina Perfect.
So you can audition this weekend here at my house.
Marco Great.
Wait, here?
You don't have enough room for the amplifiers, microphones, or even your drums.
By the way, where do you keep them or practice?
Katerina Dude, what are you talking about?
It's right here.
All we need is my Nintendo Wii and we're set.
Marco All right, we're back.
So apparently the band wasn't really a real band.
Katerina It wasn't, but I have to say I'm very familiar
with this because I have a Nintendo Wii and I often play the game Rock Band so I can sympathize
with the characters.
Marco So you also have your own band?
Katerina I do.
Well, virtually speaking.
Marco Virtually.
Katerina And I know you do too.
Marco I do too.
We are both fans of this game and this gaming console and that's why it's such a fun dialogue.
But let's take a look at some of the language that was used in this dialogue in Language
Katerina Oh man, so I've been in a lot of bands and
I've been in a lot of musical groups so I can say that the first instrument we want
to talk about is maybe the most obnoxious, the most loud and hard to listen to.
Marco Probably, probably.
And that instrument is the drums.
So the drums, it's plural because you have many drums, right?
You don't just have the dum-dum-dum-dum, the bass drum.
You have many different drums together and so we could also call this a drum set.
Marco A drum set.
All right, so why don't we listen to an example of what a drum set sounds like.
So I think that's clear.
Moving on to our next instrument.
Katerina This one's maybe the most popular for young
people to start because you can play pretty much anything with it and it's also good for
sing-alongs.
Marco Right, and that instrument is the guitar.
Katerina Can you play the guitar?
Marco No, I can't.
I actually wish I would have learned but I never got around to it.
Katerina Well, this is a really beautiful instrument
and there are many different ways to play it but generally, it's either wooden with
some strings or electric so it's plastic with some metal strings.
Marco Right, exactly.
So they have a different sound but why don't we listen to an example of what a guitar sounds
All right, so great example of a guitar, pretty clear.
What's our next instrument?
Katerina The bass and this one, it doesn't look like
the word that's written, B-A-S-S, so we say bass.
And it's actually a very low instrument.
It's usually used to help keep the rhythm.
Marco All right, so it's similar to a guitar, right?
Katerina Very.
Marco It's the same form but as you say, it's lower
and it makes a lower sound.
Marco All right, so let's listen to an example of
a bass now.
All right, pretty clear.
Moving on to our next word, we have an amplifier.
Katerina Okay, so amplifier, an amplifier is a thing.
It's usually a box that we plug in, it's electric or it's electronic and it's a tool to make
electrical instruments like the electric guitar or the electric bass louder.
So an amplifier is any device that makes a sound become louder.
Katerina So this is really important for rock bands
the world over.
Marco Very good.
Our next instrument or actually more of a tool is very useful for the singer.
Katerina Yeah, and it actually goes with the amplifier
in many ways because the microphone, this is our next word, the microphone is something
that you use to sing into to make your voice louder.
So right now, Marco, you and I are both using microphones.
So a microphone.
And we have one last word and this is a verb, to audition.
Katerina All right, to audition.
So to audition means to show someone your talent, all right?
So oftentimes when you start a play or an opera or a musical group, you want to have
auditions.
You want to audition people to see how much talent they have.
So it's basically an opportunity to demonstrate your skills and abilities.
Marco So a job interview wouldn't really be an audition.
Katerina No, a job interview has its own word.
But here we're talking about your singing ability, your acting ability, your reading
ability and sometimes we even have auditions here at EnglishPod to see how comfortable
people are on the microphone.
It's a way to have people show what they've got.
So a lot of interesting words here, many instruments.
I think it's time for us to listen to our dialogue again.
We're going to slow it down a little bit and we'll be right back.
Katerina Yeah, I told you a thousand times that I'm
learning to play the drums.
Wait here.
You don't have enough room for the amplifiers, microphones or even your drums.
Stan Alright, we're back.
So moving on with our lesson, why don't we take a look now at some phrases in Fluency
Katerina Fluency Builder.
Stan Alright, so on Fluency Builder we have four
What's the first one?
Katerina Well, this first phrase is really important,
Marco, because we're talking about bands and starting bands.
And so there's often a phrase we use to describe this.
We say to form a band.
Stan Alright, so you form a band.
Katerina It's like forming something.
To form is to shape it, to make it look like something that you want.
And so we can form artistic projects also.
But here we're forming a band.
We're choosing people to bring together to make great music.
Stan Alright, so we can say form a band or you
can say as well, start a band.
So we're forming a band and well, his friend was surprised that the other guy knew how
to play an instrument.
So he said, I've told you a thousand times.
Katerina Wait, wait.
So he told him one thousand times.
Stan No, not literally.
Katerina I play an instrument.
I play an instrument.
Stan Right.
This is a phrase and it's a little bit of an exaggeration to emphasize that I've told
you many, many times already.
Katerina Great.
So this is something we say when we're trying to exaggerate like Marco said or to really
emphasize the point that like I've told you this before.
So mothers often use it.
I feel like we talk about mothers a lot here.
Mothers often use this phrase when kids do something wrong.
They say, I've told you a thousand times not to wear your shoes in the house.
Stan Exactly.
So it is a great phrase to really make your point that you've said something many, many
times.
Moving on, we have a kind of like a conjunction that you can use and it's by the way to change
the topic maybe.
Katerina By the way.
And so by the way, we keep these words together.
It's a fixed phrase.
By the way is something we add on.
So I say, you know, today I went to school and I saw a lot of people.
Oh, by the way, John says hi.
All right, so while I'm talking about this, I want to add that this thing happened or
that this person said something.
So it is, it's a conjunction, right, to put together two different ideas.
By the way, or you can start off your sentence with it.
By the way, how is the new house?
Katerina Oh, because it's like, it's like saying, oh,
this thought just came into my head.
Stan Right, right.
And our last phrase on Fluency Builder is we are set.
Katerina All right, all we need is my Nintendo Wii
and we are set.
Stan All right, so what are we set?
We are set.
Katerina All right, we are set is another one of those
phrases that's fixed and it literally it means and we are ready to start.
We're ready to go.
Stan And everything is ready.
Katerina Yeah, we don't need anything else.
And so Marco, I could say to you, just bring, just bring the salad to the table and we're
set.
We're ready to eat.
Stan All right.
And I think we're set to listen to our dialogue for the last time.
And we'll be right back and talk a little bit more about this great topic.
I'm forming a music band.
Do you already know how to play an instrument?
Yeah, I told you a thousand times that I'm learning to play the drums.
Aside from yourself, who are the other members of the band?
We have a guy who plays guitar and another who plays bass.
Yes, I'm a singer.
Dude, what are you talking about?
So rock band now.
I know that you play a real instrument, not only instruments on the Wii.
What do you play?
I play the trumpet.
I was classically trained.
I started when I was 10.
Now is this the trumpet that has the three buttons on the top?
Yes, three pistons.
Three pistons.
Because there's another one that doesn't, right?
There's one that has four pistons.
It's a piccolo trumpet, has four.
And there's one that's large and it slides in and out and that's a trombone.
That's much lower.
But the trumpet is kind of a mid-range instrument.
It can go quite high and a little bit low.
And it's brass, it's not wood.
It's made of a metal.
It looks like gold, right?
Alright, so you play the trumpet.
Did you play in a band or in a school or college?
In middle school and high school, I played in bands and orchestras.
And in college, I played in orchestra and I've also played in rock bands because sometimes
people want to, you know...
Have a trumpet in the background.
Have a trumpet and go a little crazy.
This is interesting because I'm sure a lot of our users out there actually play instruments
and maybe a lot of them are also good at it.
So come to EnglishPod.com, leave your questions and comments and let us know if you play any
instruments or maybe some strange instruments like the xylophone.
Or if you like to play We Rock Band because we certainly do and we can support you on
that one.
We can give you some tips.
Alright, so we'll see you guys there.
So Marco, what are we talking about today?
Today, we're talking about a very interesting topic.
You've probably seen it on every TV show or American movie and it's a bachelor party.
I've heard bad things.
Bad things about a bachelor party.
Now, they can be fun, but at times, they can be a little bit too excessive, too much.
But before we get started on the dialogue, why don't we take a look at vocabulary preview?
Well, the first one we've got here is the topic of today.
This is the bachelor party.
So what is a bachelor exactly?
Well, a bachelor is a person who is not married, a single person, a single guy specifically,
So it's a man.
Before he's married.
And a bachelorette.
Bachelor is a guy and a bachelorette is a girl.
And so we don't really say bachelorette except when we're talking about this party.
So a bachelor party is a party that a guy has the day before he's married or maybe two
or three days before he actually gets married.
So it's a night where all his friends get together, they go out, they have some drinks,
they have some fun and just like the last extreme fun they will have, he will have before
he gets married.
And so it's all his guy friends.
All his guy friends.
Only guys, no girls.
And the bachelorette party is only girls and it's when a girl's friends take her out before
she gets married to celebrate her last night or two of being unmarried.
So not only guys' parties can get a little bit crazy but girls' bachelorette parties can
also get kind of crazy, right?
So before we start talking about what exactly goes on at some of these parties, let's take
a listen to today's dialogue and hear what happens to our main characters.
Hi honey.
You'll never guess what.
My friends Julie and Alex are getting married.
That's great news.
They're a great couple.
Anyways, I just talked to Alex's best man and he is organizing the bachelor party.
It's going to be so much fun.
All the groomsmen are thinking up all the wacky and crazy things we're going to do that
night.
You aren't going to a strip club, are you?
I don't want you getting a lap dance from some stripper with the excuse that it's your
friend's party.
It's just some innocent fun.
You know how these things are.
We're going to play drinking games, get him some gag gifts and just have a good time.
Nothing too over the top.
If one of your friends was getting married, I wouldn't mind you going to a bachelorette
party.
Good, because my friend Wendy's getting married and I'm organizing her party.
So apparently both of them have parties to go to, but I don't think the guy was too happy
I don't think so either and that's the funny thing.
I think a lot of girls are like, oh, well, my husband-to-be, he wants to have a party.
But the minute the girl wants to have the party, the guy is like, uh-uh, no way.
I guess, but we can talk a little bit more about this towards the end.
Before we start on this really interesting topic, why don't we take a look at some of
the language on Language Takeaway.
Well, Marco, the first few words are actually more wedding terms than bachelor party terms.
The first one is best man.
Right, the best man.
So the best man is, who is he exactly?
He's usually the groom's best friend.
So the groom is the man getting married and his best friend has the position of best man.
So he has some special things to do at the wedding.
He has to make a speech, for example, and he has to stand next to his friend when the
friend gets married.
And it's just a very special position of honor that the best friend has in his friend's wedding.
Okay, and among those responsibilities, the best man is usually the one that has to organize
the bachelor party, right?
Okay, so best man.
And well, the rest of the groom's friends are also present at the wedding and they are
called the groomsmen.
All right, so groom, groomsmen.
And so usually these are maybe three to five guys, three to five men who are friends of
the groom or brother of the bride.
It depends on the wedding.
And they stand with the man when he gets married.
And so they kind of have a lot of responsibilities as well.
Okay, and the groomsmen usually are also present at the bachelor party.
Now moving on to a bit more colorful language.
We have a place here, a strip club.
Okay, so sometimes you see these in movies oftentimes or for example, the TV show The
Sopranos, this is often a place where Tony Soprano goes.
A strip club is a club, it's like a bar that's open most of the day and night where there
are women who take their clothes off for money.
All right, so you have the verb to strip, right?
A strip club.
So the verb to strip means to take off or leave without something.
So you can strip off your clothes.
So it's usually used with clothes, right?
To take off clothes, to strip.
So you have a strip club and in the strip club, you have the, as you mentioned, the
girls that are dancing and taking off their clothes, they are called strippers.
Okay, so stripper is a person who takes off their clothes as their job.
And you can have male strippers or female strippers.
So usually just saying stripper is a woman and a male stripper is actually a guy.
So you have this club that's very common in many countries and well, the strippers are
dancing and now they also talked about getting a lap dance.
Okay, now this is getting a little bit, a little dirty.
Lap is a, well, it's not really a part of your body but when you sit down in a chair,
your lap is the tops of your legs.
So you can, you know, you can hold something in your lap like your backpack.
Or maybe for example, if you have a child that's three or four years old, you would
sit him on your lap, right, on your legs while you're sitting down maybe in subway.
Right, or a laptop computer is the kind of computer you can hold on your lap.
So a lap dance is when one of the female strippers comes and kind of dances on your lap.
And so it's a sexy dance.
You pay for it extra and it's something that is very popular with young men and people
who, you know, these grooms and groomsmen before the groom gets married.
Right, alright.
And moving on, we have the last word for today, gag gifts.
Alright, gag gifts are joke gifts.
They're joke, they're meant to be funny, they're not meant to be serious.
And they're very popular at these kinds of bachelor parties and bachelorette parties.
One kind of gag gift that's just very silly is like a whoopee cushion.
You know, it's like a balloon you put on someone's seat and when they sit down, they make a farting
sound.
So those are gag gifts.
And for to joke around, it's not really useful.
It's not like giving somebody a t-shirt, right?
Right, or a gift card is a nice gift.
It's not a gag gift.
So there are really, there are a lot of different types of gag gifts and actually some of them
are pretty good and funny like, you know, like spicy chewing gum or the electric shocker.
When you shake somebody's hand.
That's really funny.
Alright, so we've taken a look at a lot of words on Language Takeaway.
So let's listen to this dialogue again and we'll be right back with Fluency Builder.
Hi, honey.
My friends, Julie and Alex, are getting married.
Wow, that's great news.
It's gonna be so much fun.
All the groomsmen are thinking up all the wacky and crazy things we're gonna do that
We're gonna play drinking games, get him some gag gifts and just have a good time.
If one of your friends was getting married, I wouldn't mind you going to her bachelorette
So now, let's look at some of the phrases that were used in this dialogue on Fluency
So at the beginning of this dialogue, we meet this couple, this man and woman.
And the guy says, hey, honey, you'll never guess what.
Okay, my friends are getting married.
It's just a phrase that you would use to give really, really important or exciting news.
It's like, guess what?
Okay, so you'll never guess what happened to me.
I won the lottery.
Right, it's so amazing or it's so uncommon or unusual that you would probably never guess
that person won the lottery.
Okay, so you'll never guess what.
Right, you'll never guess what.
Or you can say, guess what, I won the lottery.
Okay, all right.
And our second phrase, you know how these things are.
Okay, so this is a phrase that people often use when they want to remind someone that
this is tradition or this is a habit, it's a common thing.
And so oftentimes when like people are having problems at work and they say, oh, gosh, this
person's just not listening to me.
Someone to help them out will say, you know, you know how these things are.
You know, it takes some time to resolve a problem.
Or you could say, you know, gosh, this is gonna be a horrible party.
I don't want you guys to go to a strip club.
It's so dirty.
And you'd say, well, you know how these things are.
It's tradition.
You have to do it.
Right, so this is what he meant, right?
It's like, I don't really have a choice.
It's a tradition.
This is what guys do when they're gonna get married.
So we have to do it.
It's almost like saying, don't worry about it.
There's really nothing to worry about.
Nothing to worry about.
And our last phrase, and our last phrase is something that we'd never want to happen.
Something to be over the top.
Well, it's not necessarily a bad thing.
So we could say that it was a really ridiculous party.
It was really over the top.
They had a clown and they had people dressed up like Star Trek characters.
You know, something that is more than normal.
It's almost silly the way that it's all just kind of crazy.
And yeah, it's too much in every way.
So it can be something bad, like for example, someone's behavior was over the top.
It was too much.
It was too intense.
Or like, oh my gosh, did you see her coat?
It's really over the top.
It's like purple with sprinkles on it.
So it can be used in different ways, but it usually means it's excessive.
It's too much.
So some interesting phrases on this occasion as well.
Let's listen to our dialogue for the last time and we'll be back.
All the groomsmen are thinking up all the wacky and crazy things we're going to do
that night.
We're going to play drinking games, get them some gag gifts and just have a good time.
Good, because my friend Wendy is getting married and I'm organizing her party.
So bachelor and bachelorette parties.
Have you ever been to a bachelorette party?
I have not yet, but one of my closest friends is getting married in a couple of weeks, and
so I will be attending and helping organize a bachelorette party.
So do you have anything in mind?
Nothing I can talk about.
These things are meant to be surprises oftentimes, so I don't want to spoil it.
But I will tell you that my boyfriend just organized a bachelorette party for his best
He was the best man in the wedding.
And it was very crazy.
Did they also go to Vegas and do some of these things that we saw in the dialogue?
They didn't go to Vegas, but they did some of the things we heard about in today's dialogue.
They went to a strip club, they got lap dances, they drank a lot.
It was very over the top.
And I think this is something that most of our listeners probably have seen in TV shows
or in movies or in different type of exposure of American culture, which is actually very,
very common in Canada, the United States.
I'm not really sure about Europe or England.
It is too.
My friend said that his friend was getting married and they all went to Portugal for
a week to have a bachelor party.
And I heard something about mud wrestling.
Well, I guess it's different in every country.
And this is the interesting part.
We want to know how these things are in your country.
Do you have any traditions or any fun stuff that you do before the wedding?
Maybe after?
What about Ecuador?
We usually, we don't really have strip clubs actually.
So it's kind of...
That makes it easy.
So we usually just do what we do every night.
Just go out with friends, drink and dance, play the guitar or yeah, maybe some gag gifts
or some prank that we pull on the groom, but nothing too over the top.
So yeah, we're really interested in knowing how it is in your country.
So come to EnglishPod.com, leave your questions, comments and we'll see you guys next time.
Until then, bye everyone.
And my name is Catherine and today we have a very scary story.
We're actually bringing you the first of our advanced media lessons and what better way
to start it with than a scary story for Halloween.
Than with.
So what better way to start this advanced media lesson than with a scary story.
So Halloween is coming up and advanced media usually features a new story or some kind
of story that we can then kind of break down and talk about.
Just have a conversation about because you're advanced level learners and you want to have
fun with English.
So where is today's spooky story set Marco?
Well it starts out with a guy who remembers something very scary that happened to him
when he was a kid.
Okay and so one of the main characters in today's story is his great aunt.
That's right his great aunt.
And so basically this is a family member but it's your father's aunt.
Your grandmother or your grandfather's sister.
Alright so your aunt or your aunt is your parent's sibling.
But in this case we're talking about one generation older than that.
So you could say great aunt, great uncle, great grandfather, great grandmother.
It's like one step back.
So this is usually a very old person and the great aunt is definitely an important character
in today's story.
So let's not keep you in suspense any longer.
Why don't we listen to this scary story and we'll be right back to talk about it.
Oh no the lights went out.
Honey can you light a candle?
What do we do now?
Well we can just talk you know like we used to.
I'll tell you a scary story.
It happened to me and my dad when I was a teenager.
I was living with my father at the time when he received a phone call.
Yes this is him.
Sorry to hear that.
Okay no problem.
I'll be there shortly.
Pack some clothes Tony.
My great aunt is very ill and no one in the family wants to take care of her.
We're going to stay at her house for a few days.
Aunt?
What aunt?
I never knew you had a great aunt.
Well the family doesn't talk about her or get near her for that matter.
Come on we have to go.
So we arrived at this old house on the outskirts of our town.
There was almost no one around and the house had an eerie look to it.
Once inside the house we walked to her room and I was surprised to find my dad's great
aunt in a wheelchair yelling at someone but we were alone in the room.
Hi Aunt Ursula.
This is my son Tony.
Why have you come?
Don't you know it isn't safe?
My time is near.
He's coming for me.
Who is coming for you?
The Prince of Darkness.
The Lord of the Underworld.
The Tempter.
The Old Serpent.
Aunt Ursula let's lay you down.
You need to get some rest.
Tony help me lay her down.
That night we slept in one of the 12 rooms of that big old mansion.
The trees outside seemed to come alive and their shadows formed ghoulish shapes on my
bed.
All of a sudden we heard screaming.
Oh my God!
I can't believe it!
I won't let you take me!
Something is attacking Aunt Ursula.
The door is jammed, stand back!
Aunt Ursula where are you?
Over here!
And as we approached her she was lying on the floor with her hands and feet open like
the Vitruvian Man, breathing heavily with bloody marks and scratches on her arms, legs
and face.
Remember how I mentioned that she was in a wheelchair?
My aunt had been paralyzed from the neck down for just over a year.
After this incident, strange things would happen in the house and my aunt would yell
and scream, according to her, warding off the evil that had come to get her.
As the days passed, she became very weak and eventually was unable to talk.
My dad had to work during the day, so I was left to care for her.
When she lost her voice and laid on her deathbed, I would hear her breathe in and out.
Until finally one day, she breathed in and never exhaled.
That night, I felt relieved that it was finally over, but it wasn't.
I was so terrified of what I was hearing that I didn't sleep all night.
The following morning, I went to the bathroom, expecting to find a mess and everything torn
up, but I found everything exactly as it was before.
The movers came that same day and as we were cleaning out her drawers and personal items,
we found strange notebooks with names and amounts of money written next to them.
We found pictures with people's faces sewn with black or red string.
And you want to know what the strangest thing was?
There was a small doll filled with dead ants, with a strand of hair tied around its waist.
And on the doll's face, there was a picture of me with the numbers 31-10-09.
You know what date it is today?
October 31st, 2009.
So, what did you think?
Pretty scary?
I got goosebumps.
It's a little spooky.
A little scary.
Now, what's interesting about this story, it's based on a true story, so that makes
it even scarier.
Dare I ask, did this happen to you?
I'm not old enough, but this actually happened to a family member of mine, and that's why
I know this story.
So, it was kind of told to me when I was a bit younger and I remembered it.
And well, Halloween is a great time to remember these things.
And the first time you heard it, it scared the crap out of you, right?
Oh yeah, for sure.
Actually, the first time I heard it, we were on an airplane, like on October 31st.
Oh wow.
So, it was pretty scary.
Well, we've got a lot of really interesting stuff here.
We're not going to dwell too long on the grammar or the vocabulary because we assume that most
of you have understood this, but there are a couple of things that can be really difficult
even for English speakers.
So, the first one is this phrase, my time is near.
So, what does that mean exactly?
Well, my time is near, my end is coming.
It means I'm very old and I'm probably going to die soon.
So my time, his time, that's when you die.
Okay, so it's always used in reference to death, right?
In this case, yeah.
So, it's used in reference to death and in this case, we have the aunt who's talking
about herself, but you could also say his time is coming, we should visit him in the
hospital.
So, it's a kind of softer way of saying that someone is going to die soon.
Okay, so my time is near or his time is near.
And then, something really interesting in this story as well, she had many different
names that she called the devil.
So, she didn't directly say the devil, she said the prince of darkness.
Prince of darkness, lord of the underworld, the tempter.
The tempter and the old serpent.
So, these are actually different ways that historically have been used to describe the
devil, right?
And a lot of them are biblical, like the old serpent, you know, back in the first pages
of the Bible when the serpent tempts Eve, that's the devil.
And so, we hear a lot of these, especially on Halloween, these are great words to use
to kind of diversify and not say devil, devil, devil.
So, apart from those synonyms for the devil, she also used an interesting phrase towards
the end when she said, I shall be judged before you can take me.
So, judged, to judge, this is to see if something is right or wrong.
But in this case, we talk about judgment at the end of a person's life.
So, that means when you go to the gates of heaven and there's Saint Peter and he has
a list of the good and the bad and he says yes or no.
And then if you're a no, you get sent down to hell.
If you're a yes, you go to heaven.
So, she says, I shall be judged.
This means, I want my day in court.
I want to have my actions analyzed by Saint Peter, not by you.
So, actually, this makes reference to a lot of beliefs in Christianity, right?
So, it's just another aspect of the story.
But of course, other religions probably don't have the same things such as the gates of
heaven and Saint Peter.
Right, the system of judgment.
So, what did you think of the story?
Did you like it?
I really liked it.
I thought it was really spooky and I thought that it built up well.
But I really also like the imagery.
We talked about, or we haven't talked about this yet, but he describes his great aunt,
the character describes his great aunt as being spread out like the Vitruvian man.
So, you have this image of her arms spread out and her legs spread out.
You know that picture that da Vinci did of a human being and it's like an anatomy and
it's in a circle and you can see the legs and the arms.
That's just so really like a powerful visual image.
Yeah, you can imagine her laying on the bed in this position, right?
Yeah, it is pretty scary.
Have you ever had any close encounters with the supernatural or ghosts or goblins or something
like this?
No, personally I've never had any experiences like that and I tend to not believe those
stories but maybe if this had happened to someone I knew I'd be a little bit more skeptical
or less skeptical.
What about when they have those documentaries or those recordings of strange voices or
appearances like these old castles in England or stuff like that?
I love those shows.
I just watched one and it was about a haunted house.
There was a woman who used a Ouija board and it let a demon out and the demon possessed
the girl and they called in a priest and the priest had to like exorcise the demon from
the little girl and the house was haunted and it was hurting people and it was like
possessing people.
Wow, it sounds like a movie.
Yeah, it does but it was like a TV show on Discovery Channel and it was really, really
fun.
I don't actually believe that a spirit could push someone down the stairs.
I think that you trip and then you attribute it to a spirit.
What about the Ouija board?
That's an interesting tool that many people say opens up portals and dimensions towards
hell or spirits can come out and stuff like that.
Well, for those of you who don't know, the Ouija board is a board, like a piece of cardboard
that has letters on it, letters and numbers.
You have this glass that you hold and once the spirit comes, it guides the glass to point
out to names or places and you spell them.
They're really popular with like 13-year-old girls who have these slumber parties and they
use it and we always say, you know, who is she going to date and then it moves.
But yeah, I believe in the power of the human mind so I think a lot of times even if we're
not aware of it, we're the ones manipulating this.
Or believing what we want to believe.
Yeah, but what about you?
Are you superstitious?
I'm not superstitious.
I don't know what to think about ghosts because I've actually had a couple of very strange
encounters with the supernatural but I really wouldn't say, oh yeah, I believe in ghosts
or I believe there are spirits that haven't been put to rest or they have unfinished business,
you know, like in Casper or something like that.
But once we were having dinner with my family in the house where we used to live and it
was a very old house and we had a glass of water on the table and all of a sudden it
started to move and to rotate across the table, the center of the table and we all saw it
and no one was touching it.
So we all were pretty confused and nervous and then just kind of burst out in nervous
laughter and we didn't really know what to make of it but it was very strange because
it moved a good amount, it was like half of the table and it was spinning at the same
time so it was very strange.
So, things like this and, you know, in general Hispanic or Latin American culture are, they're
very superstitious.
They have a lot of beliefs in like magic or some people still say, are reluctant to give
out a picture for example because of something like this in the story.
They don't give out pictures to boyfriends or girlfriends or anyone because if you break
up or something is to happen then they could do something with that picture and maybe hurt
So this idea that you have a likeness, like a picture or a doll or something, can you
talk about that because I don't really know anything about it.
Having that means that you're able to like do something to that very person?
Like, not necessarily like a voodoo doll, right?
Where you see that you can put pins in it and then it would hurt someone.
But people believe that pictures, for example, they capture your image and so if somebody
has it and wants to do harm or black magic then they can use that as an instrument to
get into you.
The same as pieces of clothing or the same as hair and things like this.
So that's why there are the shamans or the Indian witch doctors who do cleansing like
this and people still actually go to them.
People in the city still believe in these things and they'll go to a shaman and get
themselves cleansed because they believe that their luck, they have really bad luck or they've
been very, very sick for a long time and doctors can't figure out what it is.
They think it's because someone has cast a spell on them or is doing some black magic
to them and they need to get it cleansed.
So, yeah, it's really, really common.
But it's all part of the folklore and the heritage of the countries.
It's actually very, very interesting and some things are just really out there, really weird.
Well, a lot of it I think comes from indigenous beliefs mixing with Catholicism too, right?
Because a lot of South American countries and Latin American countries are very Catholic
but they get kind of melded, these traditions with indigenous beliefs and then you have
these crazy rituals and like...
We actually have a belief and it's very true that when somebody is completely in love with
this girl and this girl is maybe not very nice or not very nice to that guy but he's
still completely into her.
So, there's this word that we say that he's been like underweared or something like that.
And the reason behind this is that one of these rituals that I talked about is that
the girl would make tea, right?
Would take a tea pot and in it would put her underpants, used underpants to make the tea
water and then would serve it to the guy.
So, the moment that he drank it, this was like a magic potion and then he would continuously
be in love with her.
So, yeah, it's very strange.
That's gross.
Do people actually do that?
It's not something that you do now but it's something that people knew about that used
to be done way, way before.
So, people now...
It's part of the language where you say that someone has been like...
Underweared or something like that.
She cast a spell on him maybe what we would say.
So, things like this that of course aren't really done anymore but still people make
reference to it because we know it from our history that it's been done before.
How cool.
Well, I'm really curious to know if our users have any similar stories or have any scary
stories they want to tell.
I bet they do.
I'm sure they do.
And this advanced media lesson is a great place for you to do that because we expect
that a lot of advanced level learners are going to be listening to it and practicing
your writing is really important.
So, we hope that you'll put some comments on this lesson and of course ask us as many
questions as you want.
So, we'll see you guys there and have a happy Halloween.
Happy Halloween.
Hello everyone and welcome back to another lesson at EnglishPod.
And my name is Kathryn and in the spirit of Halloween, we have a Halloween lesson for
It's Halloween.
It's Halloween and this is an elementary level lesson so we're talking about some basic but
important things today.
So, we're not going to preview anything because the dialogue is pretty simple.
So why don't we listen to it for the first time and we'll be right back.
Trick or treat.
Tom, aren't you a little too old to be trick or treating?
Where's your Halloween spirit?
Didn't you ever dress up in a costume and go around the neighborhood trick or treating
with your friends?
Of course I did.
When I was 10, trick or treating is for kids plus I'm sure people think you're a kidnapper
or something running around with kids at night.
I'm going next door.
I heard Mrs. Robinson is giving out big bags of M&Ms.
So trick or treating.
Ding dong.
So, we're going to explain what trick or treating is just in a little bit.
But before we get into it, why don't we take a look at four important words in Language
Well, the first one, Marco, is very important because it's the name of this special holiday
that isn't celebrated everywhere.
It's only celebrated in some places and Americans, I think, love it above all else.
Yeah, Halloween.
And this actually comes from All Hallows Eve, right?
So it's the night of the spirits of the dead.
So the day of the dead.
And as Catherine mentions, it's celebrated in different ways in different countries but
I think probably the United States is one of the few where people dress up and go trick
or treating.
And Halloween is the last day of October.
So October 31st.
And it's a really fun holiday where mostly children dress up in costumes and they ask
for candy.
So to dress up means to get in a costume?
Well, you could say dress up to mean a couple of different things but in this case, you
dress up in a costume.
So that means you change your clothes so that you're wearing a costume which is maybe a
witch's costume or a vampire or something scary.
So you would say, he dressed up as a vampire.
He dressed up as a vampire or they got dressed up for the wedding.
So dress up.
And then we have the word kidnapper.
So the friend is afraid that his friend will look like a kidnapper if he goes out trick
or treating with the kids.
And so a kidnapper comes from the word to take or to grab.
So kid grabber.
And that means that you're going to take children from the streets and steal them.
But you can kidnap an adult, right?
So it's not only for kids.
It's for any kind of person who you take without them wanting you to.
So against their will.
And finally, we have M&Ms.
What are M&Ms?
Not the singer, right?
M&Ms.
M&Ms is spelled differently, the singer.
This is a delicious chocolate treat.
It's a candy.
And it comes in big brown bags.
And if you want them with peanuts, they come in a yellow bag.
You know your M&Ms.
Oh man, I could tell you all the colors.
But M&Ms are really delicious.
And it's actually a brand, M&Ms.
It's a brand.
So many people probably know it.
But just in case, they're called M&Ms.
Very good candy.
So these words were relatively easy and simple.
So why don't we listen to our dialogue again.
Let's slow it down just a little bit.
And we'll be right back to take a look at Fluency Builder.
So on Fluency Builder, we promised that we were going to look at this word trick-or-treating.
So let's look at it now.
Trick-or-treat.
It's a verb, right?
To trick-or-treat.
And it comes from the words that we say when we're children to the person whose door we
knock on.
So for example, I say...
And then I open the door.
I say trick-or-treat.
So what are you supposed to do in this when somebody says trick-or-treat?
Well, I'm a child.
I'm holding my bag.
And you're supposed to say, happy Halloween and give me some candy.
So trick-or-treat means you could either trick someone.
You could play a trick on them like scare them or put some toilet paper on their house.
Or you can give them a treat.
Or accept a treat.
And so the idea is if you don't give me a treat, I will do something bad to you.
But this doesn't really happen, right?
Like when kids go to people's houses, they say trick-or-treat and then they get candy
automatically.
Almost automatically, yeah.
Sometimes people avoid the holiday and they close their doors and lock them and they don't
answer the door.
And that's when someone maybe throws an egg at the house or does something mean...
Or puts toilet paper on their tree.
So trick-or-treat is what we say, but it's also something we can do.
So we can go trick-or-treating.
Go trick-or-treating.
And now we have another phrase here that's a little bit complicated.
But when the friend answered the door, he said, aren't you a little too old to be trick-or-treating?
I like this phrase because it's sarcastic.
The person is not asking a real question.
He's saying, listen, you are too old to be trick-or-treating.
And so in this case, aren't you... is a way to introduce something that we know is true,
that we think is true.
It's kind of rude and sarcastic.
So if I say, aren't you supposed to be at work?
Oh, shoot.
So it's in that form.
You're not really asking a question.
You're more demanding an explanation.
It's a suggestion.
It's like, you're probably supposed to be at work right now.
So Marco, aren't you supposed to be at school right now?
So do we always... but we always use it in that sense, right?
Aren't you... and then...
Aren't you...
Aren't you a little old for that kind of an outfit?
So aren't you...
So those are the two phrases for fluency builder today.
Let's listen quickly to our dialogue one more time and we'll be right back.
Tom, aren't you a little too old to be trick-or-treating?
Didn't you ever dress up in a costume and go around the neighborhood trick-or-treating
But when I was 10, trick-or-treating is for kids.
Plus, I'm sure people think you're a kidnapper or something, running around with kids at
So, Marco, have you ever trick-or-treated?
I used to go trick-or-treating when I was little and it was actually really fun.
We used to have competitions about who had the most candy.
I've heard about this.
Because you don't necessarily bring a bag.
You bring a pillowcase.
And you fill your pillowcase with candy.
Now, the interesting thing is that sometimes you wouldn't necessarily only get candy from
Sometimes you got weird things like pennies or toothbrushes or apples.
So you would go to someone's house and they would give you an apple.
You'd be like, okay.
But there was always an old lady who lived near, well, she lived in the neighborhood
and every neighborhood had one.
All my friends had a lady they would go to and she gave the full-size candy bars.
Because normally stores sell small candy bars for the Halloween holiday because they're
smaller, they're cheaper, it's easier to give them to many people.
But there's always one person who has the big full-size candy bars and everyone goes
to her.
And actually it's amazing how Halloween is such an important event in the States because
everyone dresses up, everyone puts out decorations or pumpkins outside of their homes.
They have pumpkin carving contests which are really cool how they carve out pumpkins.
They make faces in the pumpkins and then we can put a candle inside to light it up.
It's really fun.
So that's called a jack-o'-lantern, right?
Why is it called a jack-o'-lantern?
Do you know?
Maybe it's like a person looks like a person's face.
Maybe a jack-o'-lantern.
Because a lantern is a light.
It's like a light with a candle in it.
It's actually a very fun holiday.
It's really interesting and it's kind of strange when people really oppose it because they
say that it has to do with the devil or it has to do...
It's a pagan ritual and things like this.
But you know, it's just good fun.
It's fun.
It's silly.
Everyone likes to dress up in a costume.
What was the weirdest costume that you've dressed up as, as an adult or a child?
Because I know you've dressed up as an adult as well.
I dress up every year.
I was Pippi Longstocking last year.
Well, as a child one year, I dressed up as an injured soldier because my dad was in the
military so we always had fatigues around the house.
And so I used his fatigues and I put blood on my face and I had crutches.
And people thought that I really had a broken leg.
So they used to give me double...
That year they gave me double the candy because they thought, oh, here's a poor girl in crutches.
And trick or treating.
And my costume was an injured soldier so they just didn't understand it.
It's really funny.
Well, we want to hear about you guys.
If you go trick or treating or if you dress up for Halloween.
I know that many places around the world have parties or festivities for Halloween and people
dress up.
We'll see you guys there and we'll see you guys next time.
And my name is Catherine and today we have an exciting lesson for everyone out there,
very cultural.
Exactly, very closely related to our Halloween lesson that we had but on this occasion we're
going to be looking at All Saints Day.
Alright, so this is a festival that's celebrated in many different countries and we're learning
today about some of the ceremonies and practices in those countries that are very closely tied
to those local cultures.
Exactly, so we're going to learn a little bit about culture and at the same time we're
going to learn some great words and phrases.
So let's get started with this dialogue for the first time.
The day of the dead has arrived.
All souls day and all saints day.
Your neighbor is crazy.
Why is he screaming that?
Because today is the first of November, the day of the dead.
This is a very special day among many cultures around the world, especially in Latin America.
Seriously?
I thought it was just like any other day except for the fact that people visit the cemetery
and remember their loved ones.
Well that's just part of it.
People across the world celebrate in different ways.
In Mexico for example it's common to see people building private altars honoring the deceased,
using sugar skulls, preparing the favorite foods and beverages of the departed and visiting
graves with these as gifts.
In the Philippines the tombs are cleaned or repainted.
Candles are lit and flowers are offered.
Entire families camp out in cemeteries and sometimes spend a night or two near the relative's
tombs.
Whoa, that's scary.
I don't know if I could do that.
We should fear the living, not the dead.
And we're back, so did you know about these traditions in the Philippines and in Mexico?
I know about the Mexican ones because there's a lot of Mexicans where I come from in Chicago
and they still celebrate these things.
But I didn't know about the Philippines so I found this really interesting.
Interesting, right?
Actually, yeah, the Philippines as well as Mexico are very Catholic countries so maybe
that's one of the reasons why they have these events that are so important for their culture.
I'm sure, yeah.
All right, so before we start talking a little bit more about the culture, why don't we take
a look at language takeaway.
All right, the first word is a very common word especially if you're a church-going person.
The word is altar.
Okay, an altar.
An altar, it's a thing.
It's a thing and an altar is usually found inside a church as you said, right?
So it's like a...
Table.
It's like a table.
Or a counter.
So the altar in the church is where the priest does all of the stuff that he does during
the mass.
It's where he prepares the bread and the wine and it's essentially a table, yeah.
But you can build an altar for yourself in your garden, for example, right?
And it doesn't have to do with the Catholic religion necessarily.
No, not necessarily.
You could have an altar in a Greek pagan temple where you give offerings to a god or goddess.
So in this case, an altar is a special religious table where you perform certain religious
rites or functions.
All right, and so it's common in Mexico for people to build private altars honoring the
deceased.
So what is this word, deceased?
All right, deceased is a noun.
It's a word that we use to call someone who's dead or departed.
So the deceased was named John Smith.
So it's like a more technical term of saying somebody is dead.
Right, and it's something that you'll often read in the newspaper when they don't want
to say the dead guy.
The deceased was a doctor and he is survived by three children.
And so deceased is a way to describe a person in a nicer way.
Right, very good, the deceased.
And you mentioned another word that's very closely related to deceased, the departed.
That's right, and this is actually a famous word because of a Martin Scorsese movie that
came out about two years ago.
And departed, you know the word to depart, to leave.
A person that is a departed is someone who has left us.
It's a dead person.
So you can say the deceased or the departed, which basically means the same thing as the
dead guy or the dead person.
Exactly, but again, it's much more polite.
It's something that we hear often at funerals or that we read in magazines.
Okay, so for example, All Saints Day is a way of honoring the departed.
Exactly, very nice sounding.
Yeah, it sounds better.
All right, so talking a little bit more about the departed and the traditions, it says here
that many Mexicans use sugar skulls or have sugar skulls during this festivity.
So a skull is the bones from a person's head.
And so you can often see these on, for example, pirate ships.
We say skull and crossbones.
And so it's the bones from a head and you have the bones underneath.
It's a very popular image on Halloween because it's scary.
But a skull is essentially the bones from a head.
So it's like a person's head without the skin, eyes, lips, everything.
Right, it's scary because it has empty black spaces where the eyes are supposed to be and
you can see all the teeth, but nothing else.
What about the sugar skulls?
What are these?
They're skulls made of sugar.
And so they look like skulls because there's no cheeks and there's no skin or eyes, but
they're beautiful because the Mexicans in their tradition, they color the sugar.
So you can have white skulls with this beautiful green and pink and red and blue decorations
and you can eat them because they're made of sugar.
And so it's a special treat that people have in the Mexican tradition on the Day of the
Dead.
And one of the many traditions apart from sugar skulls and building private altars,
they also visit the person's tomb, if possible, right?
So a tomb is an important word.
So what is a tomb?
A tomb is a place where someone is buried.
It's a space or a place and it can be big or small, but it's essentially the resting
place of a dead person.
So a tomb, where the person is.
And actually on the tomb, you have the tombstone, right?
And a tombstone is the same as a gravestone and it's a piece of rock on which you write
the name and the birth date and the death date of the person that is buried there.
So that's the tombstone.
So an interesting amount of words here on Language Takeaway.
Why don't we listen to this dialogue again and we'll be right back with Fluency Builder.
Because today is the first of November, the Day of the Dead.
I thought it was just like any other day, except for the fact that people visit the
cemetery and remember their loved ones.
Well, that's just part of it.
In Mexico, for example, it's common to see people building private altars honoring the
deceased, using sugar skulls, preparing the favorite foods and beverages of the departed
and visiting graves with these as gifts.
In the Philippines, the tombs are cleaned or repainted.
Entire families camp out in cemeteries and sometimes spend a night or two near the relatives'
So why don't we look at three main phrases on Fluency Builder now?
Well, the first phrase should be obvious by now because it is the name of the holiday
we're talking about and the name is the Day of the Dead.
The Day of the Dead.
So this is their day.
It is and it's the Day of the Dead because it's the day in which people around the world
celebrate the departed.
It's when they talk about and remember people that they've loved who've died.
So it's not really like a sad day, right?
It's more of a happy remembering them and honoring them and how much you miss them,
but in a good way.
And you're not actually going to hear this very often in reference to American culture
because it's not something Americans do and English people don't do either.
But people, when they're talking about their own families and traditions, will want to
talk about this because in the Philippines or in Latin America, you have a very strong
culture, like a very strong tradition of celebrating this.
And as we mentioned, this day is a day to honor or to remember your loved ones.
And that's our second phrase, your loved ones.
The phrase loved ones might not be obvious to many people because you can love many people
and many things, but loved ones is a phrase that generally means the people that you care
about the most, your friends and your family.
So you could say, I want to have a party, but I only want my loved ones to be there.
Or he was in the hospital and all of his loved ones visited him.
So all those people, not necessarily only family, it's friends and family that you love.
And so those are the people in the world that are the very closest to you.
And our last phrase and probably one of the most interesting traditions that we were able
to see in this dialogue is that people in the Philippines camp out in cemeteries on
their family or loved ones tomb.
So the phrase to camp out means to stay overnight to bring food and a tent or blankets.
And it essentially means to make a camp so you can stay there.
And this is very unusual to me because I can't imagine sleeping in a graveyard.
I think I get the goosebumps.
So camp out or you can just say camp, right?
You don't necessarily have to say both of them.
You can camp or you can camp out and camp out generally means that you're staying in
a place that is temporary.
So interesting phrases as well on Fluency Builder today.
Let's listen to the dialogue for the last time and we'll be right back.
The Day of the Dead has arrived.
Oh, that's scary.
So, Catherine, you mentioned that in Anglo-Saxon culture, England or in the United States,
you don't have this type of tradition of honoring the dead or something like that, but you
do visit the tomb of your loved ones or the cemetery as well, right?
People do, definitely.
But you just don't have a national day where you do this.
Well, Veterans Day is a day when we celebrate people who were killed in wars or people who
participated in wars.
So in America, we have a day called Memorial Day in which we remember the people who have
died serving the country in the military.
And so Memorial Day is a day in which many people like to go to the graveyards and to
lay flowers or to remember the dead.
But it really depends on your family.
I mean, some people like to go the day a person died and on the anniversary or on a
special day for them.
So it's very private and personal and individual.
It's not something that we all do on one particular day.
And I think what may strike many people as different is that you visit the cemetery and
if you ever have the chance to be in Mexico or in a Hispanic country, you will see that
it's full of people and it's actually a, there's a lot of food and people are there eating
on the tomb and just, and they've actually prepared the food that was the deceased's
favorite.
Wow, that's really nice though as a gesture because it's another way to remember the person
and to celebrate how, how, like things that were happy for them.
And it's a way of actually sharing a meal with that person even though that person isn't
with you anymore in this world.
So yeah, it's actually very interesting.
It goes back again to a little bit of the culture and the folklore and everything from
And we want to know what you guys do or how you remember your deceased because each country
has its own particular little very interesting way of doing it.
So please share with us on our website EnglishPod.com your own traditions and the culture that you
have in your home country or town.
And we're very curious to hear those.
But also if you have questions as always, please ask because we're happy to answer those.
Bye, bye.
Welcome back everyone.
So, what are we talking about today, Marco?
We are going to the flower shop.
Okay, so this is an intermediate level lesson and we're going to be learning about the different
kinds of flowers you can buy at a flower shop.
And so, we've got a guy here who's probably trying to say something to someone he loves.
Yeah, I think he did something to his girlfriend or wife.
And well, that's the typical thing, right?
You do something wrong, so you got to get her flowers.
And that's why women are often very nervous when their husband or boyfriend gives them
flowers because she's thinking, hmm, what did he do wrong?
All right, so let's listen to the dialogue and we'll be back soon.
I would like to buy some flowers, please.
Something really nice.
May I ask what the occasion is?
It's not really an occasion.
It's more like I'm sorry.
Very well.
This arrangement here is very popular among regretful husbands and boyfriends.
It has a dozen long stem red roses with a couple of sunflowers and a single orchid that
stands out.
It includes a small teddy bear to achieve the effect of immediate forgiveness.
I think I'm going to need more than just a dozen red roses and a bear.
What else do you recommend?
Hmm, well, this is our I'm sorry I cheated on you package.
Two dozen red roses lined with tulips, carnations and lilies.
The fragrance and beauty of this flower arrangement is sure to make her forgive you.
I don't think that's going to cut it.
I need something bigger and better.
I'm sorry, sir, but what exactly did you do?
Well, I may have accidentally insinuated that she is getting chubbier.
Get out of my store, you jerk.
Is this really like a bad thing to do?
Heck yeah.
No, really?
Well, no one wants to hear that someone thinks they're fat.
Okay, and chubby is maybe not as bad as fat, but the guy could have been a little bit nicer.
All right, so we'll give our listeners some advice towards the end of the lesson.
So now why don't we take a look at all the flower names in Language Takeaway.
Okay, this first flower is a beautiful one and it has delicious seeds that people like
It's called a sunflower.
A sunflower.
All right, so that's a yellow flower, right?
It's bright yellow and in the middle is orange and the stems are very, very long.
And thick.
Yeah, and thick.
So it's a tall flower.
Okay, sunflower.
And yeah, as you mentioned, some people eat sunflower seeds.
They're like the little salty ones, right?
They're really good.
All right, next is an orchid.
Okay, an orchid is a beautiful flower and they're often grown just one at a time and
people collect orchids.
So these can be very, very expensive.
They're very expensive.
And they come in all shapes, sizes and colors.
Okay, an orchid.
Now what about a tulip?
A tulip is another pretty flower and I think they're most famous in Holland for their tulips
because this actually used to be the kind of money that they would use.
This was their currency for many years.
So they used to use tulips.
They used to use tulips and the tulip flower is kind of like a, it's like a champagne glass.
It's tall and it's kind of empty in the middle.
Oh, that's interesting.
So next time somebody says, do you think money grows on trees?
In Holland it literally did.
All right, what about a carnation?
Okay, a carnation is another pretty flower and they come, I think, in red, pink and white.
Yeah, I've mostly seen white carnations.
And, you know, flower giving, there's a whole definition to it, right?
So yeah, every flower is symbolic of something.
Red roses are for love and carnations, I think, are generally for either friendship or like
when someone died, I'm not sure.
You can give them to somebody who's passed away.
I'm not sure.
I'll have to look it up.
But carnation is another very, very common flower that you'll see in many different colors.
And a flower is also really common.
It's a lily.
A lily is a beautiful flower and usually you see these on water.
So water lilies, for example, is another name you might hear.
A water lily or just a regular lily.
And next we have the most common of all the flowers, but we've added a little twist to
It's a long stem rose.
So rose, everyone knows.
A rose by any other name would smell as sweet.
Shakespeare wrote a lot about roses.
But in this case, we're talking about long stem roses.
And we talked about this with sunflowers.
The stem is the green part that grows out of the ground and you think of the flower
as the head.
And so the stem is actually the connector between the ground and the flower.
So these types of roses have a really long stem.
So they're very nice to like maybe give one of them away.
And you see, for example, at the opera, you see singers, people throw these roses at them
and they pick them up and they're so long, the stems are so long and they collect them
in their arms.
And so that's a long stem rose.
Why don't we listen to our dialogue for the second time?
Let's keep a lookout for these flower names and their pronunciation.
And we'll come back in a little bit.
This flower arrangement here is very popular among regretful husbands and boyfriends.
Well, this is our I'm sorry I cheated on you package.
But what exactly did you do?
So in this dialogue, we had a lot of interesting phrases.
A lot of these phrases, Marco, have to do with, well, what the guy did wrong in today's
And so the first one is to cheat on.
So the woman offered him the I'm sorry I cheated on you package, right?
So it's like an arrangement of flowers that usually people buy when they cheated on their
boyfriend or girlfriend.
And so in this case, to cheat on means to see another person.
So if you're married to a woman, seeing someone else, you know, having a date or romantic
encounter with another person is cheating on your wife.
So you're cheating on your wife.
You use it like this.
Cheat on, right?
Cheat on.
So he cheated on her or they were both cheating on each other.
OK, so to cheat on.
So he was explaining to her that wasn't enough.
The arrangement wasn't enough.
And he said, I don't think that's going to cut it.
Well, OK, you've probably heard the word cut before.
But in this case, Marco, we're talking about to be able to cut something, cut it.
So that's not going to cut it or it's not going to cut it.
It's not going to be enough.
So that's not quite what I'm looking for.
It's not enough.
He wants bigger and better.
He wants more.
And so, for example, we could say, you know what?
This dessert's not going to cut it.
We need something much fancier.
OK, so to be good enough for.
And then he was explaining to the shop lady what happened.
And he said, well, I accidentally insinuated.
OK, to insinuate is to suggest.
So I could say, hey, you're really chubby.
That's not an insinuation.
That's a statement.
But I could say, well, you're looking a little bit round at the sides.
That's an insinuation because I'm suggesting without saying something.
So you're saying something indirectly.
And he was insinuating that his girlfriend was getting chubbier.
Chubby.
So chubby, chubbier, chubbiest.
In this case, we're talking about being round or a little bit overweight.
So it's not really saying fat.
No, fat is rude.
Chubby is, you know, it's in between.
Just a little bit extra pounds.
Yeah, like maybe you had a little bit too much ice cream over the past couple months.
So why don't we listen to the dialogue for the last time and we'll be back.
All right, so if you make a mistake, like as a guy, right, you give flowers to your
girlfriend.
What about women giving flowers to guys?
Is that common?
Do you think that's possible?
Can you do that?
I'm sure you can do it, but I don't know if it's as common.
Like I think as a guy, I wouldn't really feel comfortable receiving flowers.
I mean, I would be touched by the gesture and I would be like, oh, that's really sweet.
But like flowers, it's a little bit too feminine, I think.
Generally, I think it's a one sided thing.
So you can get flowers for your mother or you can get flowers for a friend or if someone,
you know, passed away, you can get flowers for their family.
But in a romantic situation, rarely do you get flowers to a guy.
So if you want to say I'm sorry to a guy, what do you give him?
Season tickets to his favorite football team.
That works.
Or a game for his PlayStation.
A game for his PlayStation or offer him a new coat of paint on his car.
Have you never given a gift to somebody like saying I'm sorry?
No, you don't make mistakes.
I like to use my words.
Yeah, this is kind of interesting.
Why do we do this?
So why do we give gifts to people as a token or as a demonstration of our regretfulness?
Well, can I get personal for a second?
I just was thinking about this in terms of engagement.
So why do people give a ring when they get engaged?
So I think it's because people like things that glitter, you know, it's like distract
the woman and she'll say yes.
And so it's the similar thing with with flowers and forgiveness.
You say, oh, gosh, these flowers are so beautiful.
Of course, I forgive you.
Oh, they're so pretty.
They smell so, you know, it's like it's like distraction from the matter at hand.
Maybe that's it.
If you disagree with me, please.
It was a very wise man who invented this.
and we'll see you guys there.
Katarina- And my name is Katarina.
So today we've got a great upper intermediate level lesson for our learners and we're talking
about what?
Marco- Healthcare.
Katarina- Okay, this is a very important topic because it's been in the news recently, especially
in the context of American politics.
And so I don't know if you've heard things about this listeners, but the healthcare is
a very hot topic.
Marco- Exactly.
So basically what we're talking about is health insurance, whether it's private health insurance
or you know, like a standard national insurance program.
Katarina- Exactly.
And so your country might have a private option where you can pay a private company for insurance
or public option like England or Australia, where your country will actually provide healthcare
for you at no extra cost.
Marco- Very good.
So it's an interesting topic.
Why don't we jump directly into the dialogue and we'll be back to explain a couple of things.
Katarina- Hey, honey, how was your day?
Marco- It was all right.
I ran into Bill and we got to talking for a while.
He's in a bit of a jam.
Katarina- Why?
Marco- Well, his son had an accident.
Bill doesn't have health insurance.
This really got me thinking and I wondered if we shouldn't look into a couple of different
HMOs.
Katarina- Yeah, you're right.
We aren't getting any younger and our kids are getting older.
I searched on the web and found a couple of HMOs with low copays and good coverage.
The deductibles are low too.
Katarina- Sounds good.
Although, do you think we can qualify for insurance?
Those insurance companies are real pirates when it comes to money.
Marco- Well, we don't have any pre-existing illnesses or conditions, so we should be fine.
Katarina- I wish our company or country provided us with healthcare.
Marco- Not in a million years.
So a lot of interesting vocab here.
Why don't we take a look at it real fast in Language Takeaway.
Katarina- Okay, Marco, this first phrase or acronym actually is three words that go together,
HMO, and they're very, very common when you're talking about healthcare.
Marco- Right.
So an HMO means health maintenance organization.
Katarina- Okay, and so this is a part of the health insurance topic where we're talking
about a company that will provide health insurance.
Marco- Right, so it's a company that provides health insurance, basically.
And if you go up to an HMO, some of the information that you'll receive is, for example, what
your co-pay will be.
Katarina- Okay, so sometimes with a private option, when you pay a company to give you
health insurance, you can get a lower rate if you help pay for some of your care.
So for example, a co-pay on a broken arm might be $20, but you pay $20, that's your
co-pay, and your health insurance company pays the rest.
And so sometimes co-pays are really high, they're really big, and that's kind of a bad
deal because if you hurt yourself, you don't want to pay a lot.
But sometimes there's no co-pay, in which case your company will pay for all of the
coverage.
Marco- All right, so another very similar word is a deductible.
Katarina- Okay, so a deductible is something that is fixed and it's in your insurance policy.
That means in the contract that you make with the insurance company, the deductible will
be stated.
So for example, my insurance plan, I have maybe a $500 deductible.
That means that in any situation, I get hurt or I get sick, I pay for the first $500 of
care and then my insurance company pays for the rest.
So if I have to have a $1,000 surgery, I pay $500 and then my insurance company pays the
other $500.
Marco- Okay, very good.
And well, you have these deductibles and everything and that depends on your coverage, right?
So coverage, how much the HMO covers you.
Katarina- That's right.
And so you can find this also in your contract with your insurance company and coverage will
include or not include something.
So coverage, for example, in a healthcare plan does not usually include your teeth.
That's a separate kind of insurance.
But a coverage can include emergency evacuation from a situation or ambulances, for example.
And so coverage is what is included in your insurance plan.
And our last word for today is to qualify for.
Katarina- All right.
So you might have heard this phrase before in the context of sports or academics.
So he qualified for a scholarship or she qualified for the varsity volleyball team.
But in this case, to qualify for is to be able to use.
Marco- To be eligible for.
Katarina- To be eligible for.
Marco- So sometimes HMOs like in, for example, the United States will not accept a person
who has maybe some health problems already because that would be too much of a risk,
For the company.
Or you could qualify for a reduced rate because you have a very good health history.
Marco- Okay.
So this is very interesting.
And we have a couple of other phrases that are very related to this language.
So why don't we move on now to Fluency Builder.
Katarina- Fluency Builder.
Marco- All right.
So in Fluency Builder today, let's take a look at our first phrase.
We got to talking for a while.
Katarina- Okay.
We could say, for example, we started talking or we were talking for a while.
But this is a very spoken language kind of phrase where we'd say, we got to talking.
So it's not really grammatically correct because you would say we started talking.
But sometimes people say we got to talking.
So we got into a conversation, right?
And usually it's about something.
So we could say, yeah, we got to talking about how we both went to the same high school.
Or we got to talking about this movie that we both saw.
And well, they got to talking for a while and apparently his friend was in a bit of
a jam.
Jam is a food.
You put it on bread.
Marco- Like marmalade, right?
And to be in a jam is a fix or a difficult situation.
So it has a very different meaning and I want to warn you about that first.
But to be in a jam or to be in a bit of a jam is to be stuck.
So you're in a difficult situation.
You have some problem.
Katarina- Yeah.
So, Marco, I'm in a bit of a jam here.
Can I get your help with something?
And then the guy was talking about insurance and he said, this really got me thinking.
So we got the verb got again there.
So got me thinking.
That means I started thinking about something.
So when we were talking about jam a minute ago, it got me thinking about how much I love
So you would use it in that way, right?
Katarina- Like it reminded me.
Marco- It reminded me or I started to really think about something.
And our last phrase is a pre-existing illness.
So to exist is to be, to be around, pre-existing means existing before something else.
And so you often hear this in terms of insurance when someone asks you about your pre-existing
condition.
So that means if I'm signing up for an insurance plan, health insurance plan, and I have an
interview with you, Marco, and you ask me this question.
Marco- What is your pre-existing condition?
Katarina- That means what diseases or health problems do I have right now?
Prior to signing up for this insurance.
And I say, Oh, I don't have any.
And you're very happy because that means I'll be cheap.
But if I say, Oh, I have diabetes, then that is something that the insurance companies
don't like because it's expensive.
Because you're more probable of getting sick or something like that.
Katarina- Right.
So diabetes or cancer or Lyme disease, these are all pre-existing conditions.
And usually pre-existing conditions are diseases or health problems that you have that won't
go away.
So we have a lot of words, a lot of phrases here.
Let's listen to the dialogue one last time and we'll be back.
Hey, honey, how was your day?
It was all right.
Well, his son had an accident.
This really got me thinking.
And I wondered if we shouldn't look into a couple of different HMOs.
Well, we don't have any pre-existing illnesses or conditions, so we should be fine.
I wish our company or country provided us with health care.
Not in a million years.
So the health care issue is pretty heated debate now in the United States because many
people don't have health care and it's not very accessible, right?
It's a huge debate because it's very, very divided by party lines.
We say there's the Republicans on the right and there's the Democrats on the left and
the Democrats want a public health care option.
They want health care to be available for everyone for free.
And many of them do.
And a lot of Republicans say, no, it should be private because if it's private, there's
competition and that means there's better health care.
And so there's a really big debate and people are getting very angry about it.
And I think it's something that's very interesting and most importantly, seeing the difference
of health care systems around the world, right?
So for example, our listeners, they are from everywhere in the world.
So we would like to know what the health care system is like there.
Do you have free universal health care in your country or do you also have to pay for
private companies or private health insurance?
And if you have one or the other system, do you think it's a good thing?
Do you think it's a bad thing?
What do you think needs some work?
I definitely agree with universal health care.
I think it's a relief because it's like one thing less to worry about.
I can't imagine like, you know, if I don't have health care right now and I'm not covered
by a private company and something happens to me tomorrow, then you know, what's going
to happen?
And I think it's a basic human right personally.
So I think it's in the best interests of a country to invest in it because it means that
their people are more productive and happier.
And healthier.
So that's all the time we have for today.
Be sure to come to EnglishPod.com.
Leave your questions and comments and we'll see you guys there.
And today, Marco, we're talking about something that I know you're a big fan of.
We're talking about computer games, video games.
So yeah, we're going to be looking at some vocabulary and phrases related to computer
games and video games.
And this is actually a request from one of our users.
So before we get started, we do have the name of the game that we're going to look at.
So let's listen to that in today's vocabulary preview.
So the game that we're going to preview today is called Counter Strike.
So first you have a strike or an attack.
Then you have a counter strike.
So that's an opposite attack or something like that.
So it's a reaction to the first thing that happens.
So you hit me and my counter strike is I hit you back.
And this game is actually very, very popular all over the world because many players are
able to compete at the same time.
So it's a shooting game.
You shoot each other.
You are the terrorists and then the other team is like the police or the army or whatever.
Sounds really exciting.
Well, we're going to learn more about the specific vocab that goes with computer games
and video games in a minute.
But first, let's take a listen to our dialogue.
Mark, where have you been?
I've been calling you all morning.
I've been playing computer games.
So you blew me off yesterday and today over a stupid video game.
What game is so important that you have no time for me anymore?
What are you playing?
It's called Counter Strike.
It's a first person shooter game.
It's a multiplayer game where you can go online and compete against players from all over
You've been wasting your time on this?
It doesn't even look fun or challenging.
My laptop is on my bed.
If you think it's so easy, then get online and try to beat me.
Go, go, go.
Take the point.
Taking fire.
Need assistance.
How are you killing me with a single shot?
It's not fair.
I don't want to play anymore.
Let's go get something to eat.
Can you bring me something?
I'm totally hooked on this game.
So there was some really interesting vocab here.
And so let's look at it now in Language Takeaway.
Okay, so what kind of a game was this, Marco?
So the game was a FPS or also in the dialogue we heard a first person shooter game.
So our users might have heard this phrase first person before because it's a grammar
term in many ways.
We talk about I.
I do this.
I can sing.
That's the first person.
But when we're talking about games, first person shooter means that what you do, you're
doing as if you were the character in the game.
So even the way that you're looking at the game, it seems like you're looking through
the eyes of the character.
Okay, so you don't see the body.
You are the body of the person.
You are the body.
So first person shooter.
So shooter obviously means that this is a shooting game.
What you do is you pull the trigger and shoot people.
And as we mentioned, a lot of players are able to compete against each other.
So it's called a multiplayer game.
Okay, so multi is a prefix.
It goes at the beginning of a word.
In English that means many.
Many.
So it can be either multi-colored or multi-ethnic.
And the meaning of this is that there are many different colors or many different ethnicities
or in this case, multiplayer, many different players at the same time.
So in this game, many players can play whether it's in a local area network or online over
the internet.
So you actually have to have the internet, right, when you're doing this because you're
using many different computers.
So they have to be connected to each other.
So and that's our next word.
It's called go online in order to play.
Okay, so online you've heard before.
Online means on the internet.
But in this case, the action of using the internet is called going online.
So I want to go online to read my email.
Or I can't go online.
I don't have a connection.
My mom won't let me go online.
I'm in trouble.
So this is the way that you use it.
You go online.
In order to use the internet, you go online.
Well, the last word we've got here in language takeaway is a very important one when we talk
about video games because many people are in this situation.
They're hooked on video games.
So if you are hooked on a video game or you are hooked on anything, it means you're kind
of addicted or you're very, very interested in something.
So I'm hooked on the TV show True Blood.
I love to watch it and I love, every day I run home so I can watch it.
But is there a game that you're hooked on, Marco?
Currently, I am hooked on a game called Guitar Hero Metallica.
Ooh, fun.
Yeah, it's really fun.
When I borrowed your PS3, I was hooked on Bad Company.
They're great games.
It's very easy to get hooked on video games.
So that's all the words we have for language takeaway.
Why don't we listen to our dialogue again and we'll be back in a bit.
Mark where have you been?
You've been wasting your time on this.
Alright, we're back and we have a couple of phrases that we want to look at, specifically
two phrases.
So what's the deal?
You blew me off yesterday and now you're not even going to say sorry?
Alright, so blew me off.
What do you mean when you say you blew me off yesterday?
Okay, so let's take a look at the infinitive version of this phrase.
So to blow someone off.
And they all go together.
And this means to have an appointment with someone, but to not go.
So we had a date planned, but he blew me off.
He didn't go.
I went.
Did he tell you that he wasn't going to go?
So it's a surprise.
It's like you expect someone to come meet you or do something with you, but they don't
say anything and they don't go.
So there's another word very similar to this one and it's to stand someone up, right?
So he stood me up.
He didn't come.
He blew me off.
Alright and what's our next phrase?
To waste your time.
Alright so the girlfriend in this case was like, you're wasting your time on these video
That means you're not getting anything out of this.
You're not benefiting.
It means that you could spend your time doing other things.
So if you're wasting your time on video games, you're not being productive.
Exactly so.
You're not learning anything.
So your mother might say to you when you're a kid, don't waste your time on games.
You should be studying.
Okay, or he wastes a lot of time watching TV.
That's a common problem.
Alright, so let's listen to this dialogue again real fast and we'll be back in a bit.
It's a multi-player game where you can go online and compete against players from all over
Damn it! How are you killing me with a single shot? It's not fair!
I don't want to play anymore! Let's go get something to eat.
Can you bring me something? I'm totally hooked on this game.
All right, so we talked about, you know, being hooked on TV shows and video games,
but this is actually a very big problem in some Asian countries specifically, right?
I've heard that. Actually, I heard that in Japan, Korea, and China specifically,
there are psychological treatment centers for kids who are addicted to gaming.
And so there's a big thing in the news in China recently where
there were parents who were sending their kids to this treatment center, rehab for games,
and that actually they found out that the rehab center didn't know what they were doing,
and they were giving the kids electroshock therapy to get them off games.
So the parents took their kids back.
That's scary.
It is scary.
I guess it's a very popular thing in Asian countries specifically, right? To play online,
to go online. There's a lot of other factors that influence this, but
I think it is like everything in excess is dangerous.
This is true. And actually, some people have been using this addiction
to be a productive use of their time. So you have some people who play a game called World
of Warcraft.
Uh-huh, and they win money.
And they win money, and they sell things to other players all over the world.
And so you have these kids in America buying toys and like shields and-
And gold.
Gold from kids in, for example, Indonesia.
And the kid in Indonesia is making money.
Right, right, right. And also, if they're really good, they go on to become professional gamers
and compete in world competitions and also test out new video games. So yeah,
it has its advantages as well.
Can you imagine what your business card would look like? Professional gamer.
Professional gamer. All right.
That's all the time we have for today. We hope you enjoyed this lesson. And of course,
if you have any questions, comments, or doubts, please come to our website,
EnglishPod.com, and we'll see you guys there.
And my name is Katrin and today we are talking about an important holiday the world over.
It's very important all over the world, especially in the United States.
So let's take a look at this holiday in Vocabulary Preview.
So the name of the holiday is Veterans Day.
So veteran.
So what's a veteran?
A veteran is a person who has participated in a war or in some kind of military situation.
So Veterans Day is a day where you commemorate all the people that fought in the different
wars.
A veteran doesn't have to be a World War II veteran.
They could be a Civil War veteran or a Vietnam War veteran.
Just a general term.
Or a Gulf War.
So that's the day in the United States where everyone honors all the soldiers that participated
in different wars and they fought for their country.
So why don't we take a look at our dialogue for the first time and we'll be back.
Do you have any plans for Veterans Day?
You mean Amistiz Day?
November 11th is Veterans Day.
What planet are you from?
Well, as you know, on November 11th the Allies signed a peace treaty with the Germans, also
known as the Amistiz Treaty.
This marked the end of World War I and many countries around the world commemorated this
date under names such as Remembrance Day.
In Poland, it's their Independence Day.
There's a lot going on around the world on this day.
I didn't know.
Probably because I flunked history in school.
Alright so there's a lot of really great vocabulary in this elementary lesson.
So let's take a look at some of these words and phrases in Language Takeaway.
Alright so the first word that came up after the guy mentioned Veterans Day, the girl mentioned
Armistice Day.
Armistice.
So what is this Armistice Day?
Armistice means to stop fighting, right?
So it's a time in which people lay down their arms, we say.
And it's one that's celebrated in Commonwealth countries like England or Canada and in parts
of Europe.
So Armistice Day, kind of like the equivalent for Commonwealth countries to Veterans Day.
Alright and well the girl gave him a bit of a history lesson and mentioned that on November
11th, the Allies signed a peace treaty.
So we have two great words here.
Allies.
So Allies is a word that we use in English to indicate people who fought against the
Germans, Italians and Japanese in World War II.
So Allies include Great Britain, America, France for some time.
So these are countries that were, and Russia, they were fighting against the Germans.
So in general terms, an ally is a friend, right?
So Marco and I are allies.
If there's a fight, I'm on his side.
The opposite of enemies.
And well the Allies signed a peace treaty.
So what is a peace treaty?
A treaty is a document that outlines new rules for a situation.
And a peace treaty is a document that calls for peace.
It says we will not fight anymore.
We will have peace and this is what this means.
So we have new rules.
So it's an agreement.
It's like a contract.
It's a contract between nations.
Alright and as we mentioned, Veterans Day or Armistice Day, we commemorate these events
that happened in the past.
So to commemorate something.
So in a sense, we are honoring it.
So to commemorate is to remember, to honor, to...
Remember with respect.
So yeah, to remember with respect.
There's a positive, respectful tone here.
It's remembering for a good reason.
So we've taken a look at these four words.
Why don't we listen to our dialogue again and we'll be back in a bit to look at Fluency
You mean Armistice Day?
Well, as you know, on November 11th, the Allies signed a peace treaty with the Germans, also
known as the Armistice Treaty.
Wow, I didn't know.
Today's Fluency Builder includes a couple of really interesting phrases that are kind
of longer.
So, let's take a look at the first one, which is very, very common in English.
So, this first sentence was kind of using a sarcastic tone because he said, what are
you talking about?
So, this guy says, Veterans Day?
Oh, you mean Armistice Day?
That means, no, I mean Veterans Day.
So, he wasn't really asking like, what are you talking about?
He was literally saying with this sentence, are you crazy?
You're wrong.
So, what are you talking about is a way, very sarcastic way to say, listen, I think you're
wrong or you must be a little bit crazy.
And then, to end the whole sarcastic sentence there, he said, what planet are you from?
So, obviously, this is Veterans Day.
So, you're so wrong.
How do you not understand what this is?
How do you not know this?
And so, for example, I could say, maybe I'll ask you, Marco, who's the President of the
United States?
I can say, well, what planet are you from?
It's obviously President Obama.
Oh, duh.
So, it's like, obviously, everybody knows this.
So, you're saying, how do you not know this already?
So, it's very sarcastic.
And finally, the guy is talking about how he doesn't understand what the meaning of
Veterans Day is.
And after this long explanation, he says, well, I didn't know, probably because I flunked
history in school.
So, if you flunked history or you flunked any subject in school, it means you didn't
pass.
So, flunk, to flunk is a verb in English and it means to fail a subject.
It means maybe in 100% is perfect, you got 50% or 40% and you have to take the course
Did you ever flunk an exam in school?
You didn't?
Never?
Such a good student.
Did you?
I did maybe once or twice.
I was much too self-critical.
Let's listen to this dialogue again and we'll be back in a bit.
So Veterans Day, it's a big deal in the United States, right?
It's a very big deal.
There's a parade.
Yeah, in most cities in the country, there are parades.
And when I was in school, we had to play music because I was in band.
We used to play music for the veterans and we'd go to the cemetery and play taps.
No, we didn't play taps.
It was...
That's like the funeral song.
Yeah, we would play funeral songs and taps for the local veterans who will be respecting
and commemorating fallen soldiers.
And then talks as well, like on national TV and stuff.
So it's very interesting, especially the history lesson, the fact that on November, I think
it's called 11-11-11, right?
November 11th at 11 o'clock, they signed this armistice treaty.
And that was in 1918.
So this is World War I.
We're talking about when the world had never really seen fighting like this before.
And so everyone was just relieved when what they called the Great War was finally over.
It's a very interesting history lesson.
So I'm sure many people have some opinions on this.
So we would be glad to hear it from you on our website at EnglishPod.com.
You can also leave questions or comments and we'll see you guys there.
And let us know, do you celebrate this holiday in your country?
Thanks for watching.
And today we're talking about money issues.
So there are some really interesting phrases and we're going to learn a little bit about
how money and social security works in the United States.
But before we get into that, why don't we look at vocabulary preview?
So we're talking about retirement and that means we're going to talk about when you stop
working when you're 63 or 65, how do you save money for that?
And the phrase we've got here is retirement plan.
So a retirement plan.
So as you say, that's some money that you have for when you retire, when you're 65,
when you're too old maybe to work.
And there are many different kinds.
We're going to hear about one that's called a 401k.
But we'll talk about that in a minute.
First let's listen to today's dialogue.
Well, that was an interesting documentary.
I didn't really understand some of the technical jargon they used in the film when they talked
about social security in the US.
Like what?
Well, they mentioned how people put away money in something called a 401k.
Yeah, I know it sounds weird, but a 401k is a type of retirement plan that allows employees
to save and invest for their own retirement.
Through a 401k, you can authorize your employer to deduct a certain amount of money from your
paycheck and invest it in the 401k plan.
Everyone tries to contribute as much as possible so that when you retire, you can rest peacefully
on your nest egg.
That's interesting and logical, I guess.
In my country, we also have to contribute to a government run retirement fund, but most
people don't really trust it, so they just invest in properties or things like that.
That seems a bit unstable, don't you think?
Yeah, but corrupt governments in the past have created distrust among banks and financial
institutions.
So now people prefer to have money hidden in a jar or a piggy bank.
I've been thinking of doing that lately.
I don't want some banker to run off with my money.
Alright we're back from today's dialogue.
Now some really interesting words and phrases there.
And as you said, this 401k, what is a 401k?
Well I'm not sure about the details, honestly, but the 401k plan is a plan for workers, people
who are young and working, to invest in their retirement.
And so it's a way to save money.
So every day they put a little bit of money towards this plan and in the end when they
retire they will have a certain amount of money that they can use throughout their seniorhood.
And so before we have that, we have this conversation which starts with a documentary.
So they're learning about 401ks.
And in this case, the person says that they didn't understand a lot because there was
a lot of technical jargon.
Alright so this word jargon, jargon, it's very similar to slang, right?
And it's a special kind of talking or special words related to a certain topic.
Or a certain industry.
For example, you hear a lot of business jargon, right?
Or marketing jargon.
Yeah, when people start talking about POPs and POS and all that jargon.
I lost you, sorry.
No, I don't get that.
Well jargon then is a special language for a certain industry or field.
And in this case we're learning about financial jargon and investment jargon.
So we're talking about 401ks and funds and all that stuff.
And now when they were talking about the 401k, he explained how they deduct money to put
into this plan.
Well, the question is who deducts money and where does it all go?
And so to deduct means to take away.
And this means in a 401k plan, the government will deduct money from your paycheck and put
it into a special savings plan for you that you can access when you're retired.
Okay, so to deduct means to take away, to take out, right?
So subtract, deduct, take away, take out.
And as they kept talking about money issues, the woman said that people in her country
distrust banks and financial institutions.
Okay, so you might recognize a word there, distrust, trust.
They have the same root.
And so to trust someone is to believe in them and to believe what they say.
But to distrust means to think what they're saying is a lie.
Okay, so you don't really believe that person.
No, so if someone says, trust me, I will take your money and I won't spend it.
You say, I distrust this person.
That means I don't trust.
Right, very good.
And well, why do they distrust these institutions?
Because the government is a bit corrupt.
Okay, so you hear this word a lot in the news or in the newspaper.
You can have a corrupt government or a corrupt politician.
That means that the government does things but says it doesn't and maybe is dishonest.
It's distrustful.
Right, so for example, a corrupt politician will support a law that's not really good
but maybe he's being paid by somebody else.
Or a corrupt politician will take money from the government institutions to use for himself
and not for the country or the people.
So it's a corrupt, corrupt government then.
All right, so why don't we listen to our dialogue again and we'll be back soon with Fluency
Yeah, I know it sounds weird but a 401k is a type of retirement plan that allows employees
In my country, we also have to contribute to a government-run retirement fund, but most
people don't really trust it so they just invest in properties or things like that.
institutions, so now people prefer to have money hidden in a jar or a piggy bank.
So on Fluency Builder, we're going to look at three phrases.
So let's look at them now.
Okay, this first phrase is what the entire dialogue is about.
It's about putting away money.
So to put it away.
Okay, so to put money away.
That's an equivalent of saving, right?
Exactly, to save.
So in this case, to put away is a fixed phrase.
These words, they go together very often and it means to save.
So you could say, oh yeah, last year I put away a thousand dollars.
Okay, so you saved a thousand dollars.
And why are we putting all this money away?
We're trying to build a nest egg.
Now this is a funny phrase.
It is funny.
A nest is a home for a bird.
You know, it's made of sticks and twigs and leaves.
And a nest egg then has to do with a bird's egg.
Eggs in the nest.
I don't know where it comes from, but it does mean money that you've saved up for some date
in the future.
So you could say, I'm trying to grow a nest egg.
I'm trying to build a nest egg so that in 10 years I can buy a house.
Okay, so it's not only for retirement.
You can build a nest egg to possibly invest it in the future into buying a house.
It's your savings that you don't touch.
So I could say, I'm going to kill you.
You spent the nest egg.
That's not for spending.
It's for saving.
And well, where can you save money for your nest egg?
It's very popular to put it in a piggy bank.
Well, maybe if you're five years old, but I don't know if I'd put a lot of money in
a piggy bank.
A piggy bank is usually a ceramic pig, you know, and it's got a hole in the top and you
can put coins in the top.
So we give these to children to teach them how to save.
So they can put one penny in every day.
And then when they need the money or they want to spend it, they break the piggy bank.
You have to throw it on the ground.
And it's sad because you realize, oh, now I don't have my piggy anymore.
Lost my nest egg.
Let's keep a lookout for all these words and phrases and we'll be back shortly.
Well that was an interesting documentary.
about Social Security in the US.
So this whole savings thing, are you good at saving?
Do you have your nest egg planned out for your retirement?
Nest egg, no, but I'm a compulsive saver.
I like to save a lot.
Yeah, because you never know when you're going to need money.
And I think once you get a kind of an adult job, you know, the nine to five job, it's
important to spend as little as possible so that you can create a nest egg or some kind
of savings account for the future because it'd be nice to have a car or a house someday.
And also, as you say, unexpected things happen.
So something may happen.
Maybe you break your arm and you don't have any savings or maybe no insurance.
So at least you have some money stashed away where you can use it.
And I know that in America right now, in the news, the credit crisis is very popular to
talk about.
And so part of this economic situation is that people owe more money than they have.
That means they've spent more money than they own.
And so they don't have any savings.
And that really scares me.
So I think it's a really smart idea to start investing as soon as you can.
Wise financial advice from EnglishPod.com.
So if you have any questions, any doubts or any more financial questions, please come
to EnglishPod.com and we'll see you guys there.
Thanks for watching!
My name is Catherine and today we have a very special lesson for everyone.
It's a new level for us.
It's an advanced media lesson and we are going to be listening to an apology.
Well, it's an apology letter but we're going to actually have someone talk it out.
So, what's happening here is someone is reading a letter they've written and they're trying
to apologize for something and we don't really know what this something is but I want everyone
to really listen here to the words that are being used and to the ways in which we can
say sorry because as they say, there are a thousand ways to say I'm sorry.
Dear Mary, I come here today this way because I need to apologize to you.
I failed you.
Although I did not lie to you in words, I lied to you with faces that did not belong
to me.
I never meant to ruin the friendship that meant the world to me.
You mean the world to me and now I come to you asking for forgiveness.
If in your heart you find you can't, then I will understand and learn from this experience.
You came into my life at a time when I needed you the most.
We talked about so many things that I started to realize my heart and my soul could actually
feel something other than hurt.
You placed comfort where there was fear, confidence when there was doubt, a shoulder where tears
could fall and completeness where there was emptiness.
I wanted to hold on to this so badly that I did whatever it took for you to notice.
What I didn't realize was that I could lose my entire being, all of who I was and all
of that I had placed in you.
I wanted to be the one who would be there when you needed to talk.
I wanted to be the comfort for your soul when the world was too much to handle.
I wanted to be strong for you when everything else seemed impossible.
I wanted to love you in only the way you deserve to be loved, never realizing that I was destroying
myself and you.
Somehow I needed you to be a part of my life.
The only problem was that I was willing to jeopardize everything to get that done.
All the things that I told you about how I felt and how you make me feel were true.
Everything else mattered to me except hearing the laughter in your voice when you were happy.
You made my days easy to get through and my nights peaceful.
You helped me look forward to another day.
Even though distance separated us, just being was enough.
I'm sorry for hurting you and if I had to do it all over again, I would have been 100%
with you.
Forgive me please.
So the guy seemed to be pretty sad.
Yeah, this is a very intense.
Well, it's not a dialogue.
It's a monologue.
One person is reading it.
So it's a very intense monologue.
Yeah, romantic, but also an air of melancholy.
He's kind of like apologizing and at the same time expressing love and all these feelings.
So it was very interesting.
But why don't we take a look at a couple of phrases.
Now in advanced media, we're not going to analyze the entire dialogue or as we do in
the other levels, actually pick out items for language takeaway or fluency builder.
So in advanced media, we're only going to pick out a couple of words and phrases and
just talk about it and talk about the topic in general.
So one of the first phrases that we decided to talk about here is this phrase, I failed
you because this is really the theme of the letter.
So if you fail someone, it means that you let that person down.
Okay, so you fail someone, I failed you, or you can say, he failed me.
So when I really needed that person the most, that person didn't come through or let me
down or failed me.
All right, so let's give an example maybe.
I needed my brother to pick me up because I don't have a car.
And my brother was supposed to pick me up at four o'clock and he forgot.
He really failed me.
All right, he failed you.
Yeah, I was disappointed.
Well, this isn't that's not as serious as what happened here in this letter, I think.
But we could talk about what did happen.
I think I have a theory.
And I know you have a theory.
So we can talk about that in a minute.
But before that, we have some other phrases about forgiveness and disappointment.
So he also said, you mean the world to me and now I come to you asking for forgiveness.
Okay, so we've got a positive and a negative.
So the positive here is you mean the world to me.
You mean the world to me.
This means you are so important to me.
You're one of the most important people in my life.
You're worth the entire world, in my opinion.
Yeah, it's a very poetic way of saying you're very important.
And then he says, and now I come asking for your forgiveness.
So this implies that he did something wrong.
I come asking for forgiveness.
So in English, we ask for forgiveness.
You can also beg for forgiveness.
So please, please forgive me.
But you can't demand forgiveness.
I demand you forgive.
No, that doesn't quite work.
We've got the world again here.
He says he, the guy who's reading, he says, you know, I wanted to be the comfort for your
soul.
So this is very, again, poetic, when the world was too much to handle.
Too much to handle is a really important English phrase.
And I'm sure you've heard it before, but we could talk about a little bit here.
So he says when everything else was too much to handle.
So everything was so difficult or it was overwhelming.
So you could say even in the office, man, all this work I have to do, it's too much
to handle.
Too much to handle.
You could also say a child is too much to handle.
I think they said this about my brother.
He was very difficult growing up.
Too hard.
He's too, he's too difficult to handle.
Well, what about in the part where he says you place comfort where there was fear, confidence
where there was doubt.
So this structure is interesting because you placed something where there used to be something
So you're replacing something, you're changing something for something else.
It's an exchange.
So you could say you placed comfort where there was fear, you placed happiness, where
there was sadness.
Where there was sadness.
So it's always like kind of opposites, right?
Light where there was dark.
So that's an interesting format of saying something.
You did something where there used to be something else.
And what about this word to jeopardize?
I always think of the TV game show Jeopardy, but that's a noun.
This here is a verb to jeopardize and that means to put something in danger or to risk
losing something.
So to jeopardize your health if you're doing something dangerous.
So smoking jeopardizes one's health.
You're putting your health at risk.
Or I don't want to jeopardize my savings by investing everything I have in stocks.
That means I would prefer to do something safer.
So you don't like to jeopardize your well-being.
I like to play it safe, as we say.
And last but not least, this almost the last phrase when he says, even though distance
separated us, just being was enough.
What does he mean when he says just being was enough?
This is very romantic, intensely romantic.
He says, even though we were far apart, just being, so just existing, just breathing was
enough.
So just knowing that she's in the world was enough for him to feel happy.
So that's what he means with just being was enough.
So just being is existing.
It's being alive.
I think we should listen to this apology letter one more time and we'll be back.
And now I come to you asking for forgiveness.
Nothing else mattered to me except hearing the laughter in your voice when you were happy.
Alright so what do you think he did that he's apologizing in this way?
Because I don't think there were a couple right?
Because he mentions friendship a couple of times.
Yes with a but.
You don't write a letter like this to someone who you want to stay friends with.
You write a letter to this to someone who you have some kind of romantic or intense
feeling for right?
So to me this seems like a letter that was written to someone who was a great friend
and he's afraid of losing that because he cares even more for her.
But yeah I guess but do you think he's confessing his love in a certain way here?
I think in some ways he's confessing a love.
You can love your friends that's okay.
But more than that he's just he's apologizing for something that he thinks has completely
destroyed their friendship.
And that is where I'm very confused because I have no idea what he did.
Well maybe he did something that let her down.
Maybe he became jealous of her new boyfriend or something like that.
Yeah or maybe it's something catty like he was supposed to do something with her and
ended up doing something with other people and left her out or embarrassed her in front
of people.
It's hard to say.
Now have you ever written an apology letter?
Yeah I have.
I've written a few apology letters.
I have a very strong sense of guilt.
I was raised Catholic.
So an apology letter.
Is it do you usually plan out what you want to say or you just like you just splurge your
feelings onto the paper?
Well you know me.
My personality is very planned and organized and so normally I have points.
So I say if this is the problem there's three parts.
I have an answer for each part and the very end I have the heartfelt apology.
It's like an essay.
I guess it's a little bit more organized.
If I were to write something like this I would just like start writing and whatever comes
That would probably make less sense than your letter.
Well I just try to stay on focus, stay on point and address the matter at hand because
otherwise then you get into other stuff and you can make people more angry.
But it is really important to write an apology letter.
Now some of the words and phrases and the vocabulary used here can be used in circumstances
that are not only romantic.
You can use it in a professional way as well.
In a professional sense you want to be careful not to get too personal.
So in a professional sense it's good to say that you're sorry for any mix ups or for misunderstandings
but in the future you will try to make things better or improve.
But in friendships and in families and in romantic relationships apology letters are
very very important because I'm a big believer in mending bridges.
I know a lot of people who we say in English to burn a bridge that means to destroy a relationship
and never go back.
But I like to mend bridges to make sure that people who I was friends with don't, you know
if we have a fight don't just hate me forever.
That even if there's a disagreement that they understand my perspective or that I understand
theirs.
I think that's important.
What about apology emails?
Do you agree with those?
I think that they are a necessity of the 21st century.
I mean I live far away from most of my friends and family and so it's important for me to
be able to communicate in any way.
But and sometimes I mean I'm very shy with some people so sometimes it's hard for me
to talk on the phone because I get stuck and then I don't I can't think of what I wanted
And so if a letter helps in that way to get you past your fear or your anxiety then by
all means an email is just as much.
I actually received a letter, a handwritten letter through an email.
How did that happen?
So the person, they scanned it, they scanned the letter.
So it was still like it still had a very intimate and personal sense.
But obviously since the mail takes so long and everything they just scanned it and then
they sent it to my email.
That's nice.
So I think that's a good idea.
Maybe you could try that one.
I'll try that one.
I don't agree with the one line email.
I'm sorry, forgive me.
Yeah, yeah, that's not good.
As my parents always used to say when I was growing up and I'd get in fights with my little
brother, the only apologies that we accept are the ones that are from the heart.
So I used to have to apologize again and again and again until I actually meant it.
And so I think that this is a very true kind of idea that, well maybe not in business and
work where you have to be cordial, but with friends and real relationships with people
who you care about, obviously real apologies are very important.
So this is an interesting topic and we recommend that if you have any other questions or doubts
or maybe you want some other explanation for this letter, you can come to EnglishPod.com,
leave it in the comment section and we'll be there.
Hello, English learners and welcome back to EnglishPod.
And my name is Catherine and today we're talking about money, but this time we're talking about
borrowing money.
So, we're asking for money.
We're going to the bank and we are asking for a loan.
But before we go, why don't we take a look at vocabulary preview.
Okay, so a loan is some money that you get from the bank.
So we're talking about requesting a loan today.
Alright, so you request for a loan or you ask for a loan.
So to request is to ask.
And that's the word that we have for vocabulary preview.
Hello sir, may I help you?
Yes, I would like some information for requesting a loan.
Here are the general terms of our loan policies.
We pride ourselves in having the lowest interest rate in the country for personal loans.
So let me get this straight.
If I borrow, let's say, $10,000, how much will I have to pay each month?
It depends on how long you take to pay it back.
If we lend you $10,000 at an annual interest rate of 10% for 48 months, you would have
to pay each month a portion of the loan, which is called the principal, and another small
portion of the annual interest rate.
This of course is considering that you don't default on a payment.
It sounds good, but there's just one problem.
I have a terrible credit score.
That is a very serious problem, you see.
The bank must assess your personal information, past loans, assets, and any other relevant
information, such as your credit score, in order to approve your loan.
I don't really need the money.
Thanks anyways.
So now why don't we take a look at some of the key words that we'll find in Language
All right, so on Language Takeaway today, we have a couple of different words.
Why don't we start off with the loan policies?
Okay, so a policy is like a rule.
For example, a government can have policies, but in this case, a loan policy is the rules
regarding the loan that you have.
Right, so maybe the loan policies could include what's the maximum length of your loan, or
maybe what's the annual interest rate, et cetera.
How much you have to pay each month, like that.
So a policy is the rules related to the loan that you've taken out.
And we have some very, very important words following this, and they go together.
So the first word is to borrow.
Okay, so you probably know this word already, to borrow.
So can I borrow your pen?
Can I borrow some money?
Sure, let me give you my pen.
Let me give you my money.
But wait, giving is different, because giving means I don't have to get it back.
So if you want to give it to someone temporarily, then you lend them your pen, or you lend them
some money.
So to borrow is to take something from someone, knowing that you will have to give it back
later.
And to lend is to give it to someone, right?
So can you lend me your pen?
That means can you give it to me, please?
And this is a common mistake with language learners, especially English learners, that
they make the mistake of using borrow instead of lend.
So can you borrow me some money?
So can you lend me some money?
Sure, but I expect you to pay me back later.
And if I pay you back later, I'll include an interest rate.
Will you really?
Mostly it's banks that ask for an interest rate.
So in this case, an interest rate means the amount of money that a bank will charge you
in addition to the money that you owe them.
So it's called an interest rate and it's a rate because it's a percentage.
So it's like 5%.
5, 10%.
That is an interest rate.
And now moving on, if you have a loan and you have to pay each month, be careful to
not default on your payments.
Okay, default.
In the banking world, this means to not be able to pay your loan.
So that means that if I owe $1,000 to you, Bank of Marco, and I don't have the money,
I can't pay for it, then I default.
So to be late or to not make the payment.
It's a verb, to default.
And Will, the person asking for the loan has a small problem.
His credit score is not very good.
Okay, I think he calls it terrible.
And one of the ways that you get a terrible credit score is by defaulting on a loan.
But it also means that maybe you borrow money or you have credit cards and you can't pay
off your bills.
And so a credit score is very important in America and it's like a report card for your
finances.
So for example, if your credit score is a report card and you have an A credit score,
that means that the banks won't have a problem with lending you money.
Or if you want to buy a new car, it'll be okay.
But if you don't pay your bills on time or you default on your loans, then maybe you'll
have a C or a D and then people will not really lend you money in the future.
They won't trust you.
All right, so that's credit score.
That's all the words we have for Fluency Builder.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back shortly.
information such as your credit score in order to approve your loan.
So now, why don't we take a look at three key phrases on Fluency Builder.
Let me get this straight.
We're going to do Fluency Builder?
Wait, I don't.
So this is our first phrase.
Let me get this straight, and this is a fixed phrase that means we always say it the same
Wait, let me get this straight.
We always say it the same way?
Right, so you're asking for a confirmation or you're repeating what that person said
just to be sure that it's correct.
So, maybe you don't understand something or maybe you think you might have misunderstood.
You say, hey, so let me get this straight, and you repeat what the person just said.
It's a way for you to, like you say, get confirmation on what you've heard.
And now, moving on, we have the phrase, pay it back.
You have to pay it back.
Okay, and so in this case, we have the verb to pay, but we also have the word back.
So pay it back means to repay.
So if we take out a loan, we obviously have to pay it back to the bank.
Right, so you have to pay the loan back.
Okay, so just remember that these words often go together, to pay it back.
I'll pay you back, I promise.
Right, can you lend me a dollar?
I'll pay you back tomorrow.
Nah, don't worry about it.
Alright, and the bank started off saying, we pride ourselves in having the lowest interest
rate in the country.
Alright, so we pride ourselves.
What does it mean if I pride myself in something?
The word pride means to be really happy about something that has to do with yourself.
So something that you're proud of is something that you want to tell a lot of other people
For example, a father may say, my son just got straight A's and he's an excellent soccer
player and so he's proud of his son.
But to pride oneself means to be really happy with the way that you do something.
Right, so for example, if I've never smoked, right?
So I can say, I pride myself in being a non-smoker.
Or I could say, I pride myself in always saving lots of money for my paycheck.
So it means I try to do this because I know it's a good thing.
But you feel very good about this and you feel that people should be proud of you as
well.
So we could ask our students here, what do you pride yourselves in as a challenge?
As a challenge for the website.
Alright, so why don't we listen to the dialogue for the last time and we'll be back.
Would you like some information for requesting a loan?
Alright, very good.
So as you say, saving is important.
And well, sometimes, do you think you need a loan?
I think sometimes people need loans because they want to go into business, for example.
So people who want to go into small businesses or open their own companies need startup capital.
This is a really great example of when people don't have the money lying around and will
go to find a bank that will give them a loan.
So yeah, I think it's really important, especially for the economy of a country, for business
loans or small business loans to be available because sometimes it's very difficult to find
a bank that will actually lend a person money to start a business.
Usually they won't have a problem with lending them money to buy a new car, but to start
up a business, it's completely the opposite.
And one of the really popular trends in foreign investment right now is called micro-lending,
so micro-loans.
And that means that if I want to help people in a very poor country, I can lend $100 for
someone to buy a sewing machine or for someone to buy a small computer, $500 for a small
computer, and that is a micro-loan.
It's a very, very small loan for one thing, and that can help them towards their goal
of being a business person.
And you're not really getting money out of it, though.
You're not charging like 100% interest rate.
You're not.
You're charging like 1 or 2% interest, very low interest, and you're giving people a chance
to pay the money back because it's such a small amount.
Wow, that's really good.
A really positive thing.
So if you have any questions, any comments, or any suggestions, please come to our website
at EnglishPod.com, and we'll see you guys there.
See you next time.
And today we have an intermediate level lesson talking about appearances.
We are going to change or somebody wants to change their appearance and they're going
to have surgery.
Well, before we get started, let's look at what kind of surgery they're having in today's
So today we're going to be talking about plastic surgery specifically.
Plastic surgery.
So why plastic?
I don't either.
Well, basically, plastic surgery is, you know, surgery for your appearance, right?
It's not really for health reasons.
And sometimes they add things to you.
Sometimes they take things away, but they're not for your health.
They're not for your heart or your lungs.
It's for your appearance.
Yeah. and also called cosmetic surgery.
And we'll be hearing that later.
But cosmetic means having to do with your appearance like cosmetics.
So we're going to be talking about this.
Let's listen to our dialogue for the first time and we'll be back.
Look at me.
I look so old.
I look as if I were 30.
Stop being so vain.
You are beautiful.
Yes, I am.
But I think it's time for some plastic surgery.
I'm tired of these wrinkles and sagging skin.
I don't see any wrinkles or sagging skin.
You're 25.
Stop being ridiculous.
Besides, I think that people who get Botox have facelifts or tummy tucks look weird.
Doesn't look natural.
I think I'm going to get liposuction and a nose job and some breast implants as well.
I think you need to get brain surgery.
I honestly don't think you need cosmetic surgery.
I thought you were my friend and would support me on this.
I just want to feel better about myself and feel more attractive.
You don't need plastic surgery to do that.
You're fine the way you are and you have guys drooling all over you.
Plus, plastic surgery hurts.
I got my nose job, I was black and blue for a week.
So yeah, they think this girl really wants to get this surgery.
But she doesn't seem to know why.
She's just like, I'm in a bad mood.
I want surgery.
And that's the worst reason.
And it's pretty painful from what I hear.
Expensive and painful and potentially dangerous.
But we can talk about that at the end.
So why don't we start with the words that we saw that are all related to surgery in
Okay, well this first one might be the reason for surgery, not necessarily a kind of surgery.
If someone is vain.
Okay, so if a person is vain, this is an adjective.
That means that they are very, they care too much about their appearance, right?
And they care so much that they only care about themselves.
So do I look good?
I love my face, my eyes.
I look so good.
So a person who is vain thinks very highly of themselves.
And well, this person I think wanted to get surgery as well because she said she had wrinkles.
Okay, wrinkles are little lines on your face.
So maybe on your forehead or next to your mouth.
And generally, when we get older, people get more and more of these.
And you have, even you have wrinkly skin when you're in the bathtub for too long and you
look in your hands, they look like raisins.
You have wrinkly skin.
Wrinkles are little lines in your skin.
And well, you have wrinkles as you said around your mouth and eyes.
And sometimes under your eyes, you also have some sagging skin.
Or under your chin.
Under your chin as well, yeah.
So sagging means coming down, means it's heavy.
It's like hanging.
So sagging, something sags.
It's heavy, it pulls down.
But if you have sagging skin, that means your skin is no longer tight.
It's kind of loose and it hangs.
Falling off your face.
And well, a new popular treatment that is not really surgery is this Botox.
So Botox is something that women and some men do every couple of months I think and
they have to get shots.
They're like injections.
And they tighten your skin.
And so you can get Botox in your face, your forehead or your eyes and it makes you look
younger for a couple of months.
I've heard that they also put them in their lips to make them like fuller, right?
And sometimes you can say that someone's had too much Botox because they can no longer
smile or they can't stop smiling.
And well, very related to this is also when people get a facelift.
A facelift.
So basically it's that a doctor, a plastic surgeon will tighten the skin on your face
so he'll pull your eyes and the skin next to your ears to make your face look younger.
So that's called a facelift.
So it's to kind of take away those wrinkles, right?
Or the sagging skin.
Lift means to pull up.
It's the opposite of sag.
So this dialogue has a lot of rich vocabulary related to surgery.
So why don't we listen to our dialogue again and we'll be back with the second part of
language takeaway to explain a little bit more.
Besides, I think that people who get Botox, have facelifts or tummy tucks look weird.
It doesn't look natural.
Plastic surgery hurts.
When I got my nose job, I was black and blue for a week.
So what other surgical procedure is in store for us?
Well now the big ones.
So we've left the face and we're talking about the rest of the body.
The first one is a tummy tuck.
Okay, so a tummy tuck.
Well, let's look at these two words by themselves because maybe tummy, people have heard before.
This is another way to say stomach.
Usually children say tummy.
Right, my tummy hurts.
My tummy hurts and doctors, they'll say stomach.
But the name of this surgery is tummy tuck because tuck means to put in or to fold.
And so my mom used to say tuck in your shirt.
You know when your shirt comes out of your pants and that means you put it back in.
Well a tuck means to fold your stomach under.
It means to make your stomach look smaller and they put staples or I think they sew you
Yeah, they sew you up.
It's pretty painful, right?
I've heard that.
Usually this is because somebody got a liposuction for example and that's our next word, liposuction.
Okay, lipo, that's kind of fat, right?
And suction means to pull like a vacuum.
So that's basically what they do.
They open the person up and kind of use a sort of vacuum type device and suck all the
fat out of the stomach or the balcony areas, you know, the love handles that are also called.
And this way, they remove all this excess fat.
And because they do this, sometimes the skin, since it's been stretched out because you
were a little bit fat, they need to have a tummy tuck.
That means to hide the extra skin.
The extra skin to kind of hide it.
So these two words, these two procedures actually go hand in hand because maybe if you're very
fat you get a liposuction but that doesn't solve your problem because now you have all
this sagging skin off your stomach.
So you have to have a tummy tuck as well.
So yeah, very, very dangerous procedure I've heard as well, right?
And they usually only do it with people who are very, very fat.
That means dangerously fat.
Because if you do it on a skinny person, you could really hurt them.
Yeah, of course, fat is also necessary for our bodies.
Alright, so now moving back up to the face again, a very common procedure, I think one
of the most common ones is a nose job.
A nose job.
And so nose job is very colloquial.
You'll hear this on the TV.
Nose job means to fix someone's nose, to change the shape or appearance of their nose.
And so oftentimes people with really big noses want smaller noses.
And so the doctor will take some bone away and will put the skin back.
So this is called a nose job or formerly known as like a nose surgery, right?
Rhinoplasty is the official name.
And actually I've heard it's very painful because they have to break your nose before
they fix it.
I can't believe people do this.
And well, one of the very common ones among women most likely is our breast implants.
So breast implants, am I allowed to say boob job?
Well, the very common phrase for this is boob job.
Boob is a very colloquial term for breasts.
And breast implants are, well, an implant is something that you put inside something.
And so a breast implant is a piece of silicone.
So it's like plastic, but it's more like a liquid plastic.
Just imagine like this big plastic bag with like gel, right?
Inside of it.
And they put that inside a woman's chest to make her breasts bigger.
And so these are very, very popular surgeries, breast implants.
I guess many models and many types, different types of women get breast implants.
And the verb there is to get.
So she got breast implants.
Because they're things.
So why don't we listen to our dialogue for the last time and we'll be back to talk a
little bit more.
So, as you mentioned, all of these surgeries are very painful and very expensive, right?
They are.
The plastic surgery industry is huge.
I was just reading an article that said that re-dos are becoming very popular.
There are doctors who perform re-dos.
That means-
To re-do a surgery.
They're fixing other surgeries because oftentimes people go in, they say, I want a nose job,
they get a nose job, and then it's not the nose they wanted.
They have doctors now who specialize in fixing former surgeries.
I've heard also a lot about the plastic surgery tourism industry where people get offered
a package, for example, to go to countries like Argentina where they have good doctors
and it's very inexpensive compared to the states to get plastic surgery.
It's also popular now in Asia, I believe they're traveling to Hong Kong to get plastic surgery
done.
But it's one of those things that if you have the money and you really feel that you want
to improve your appearance, then-
But is it an improvement?
It's a little fake.
Yeah, it is a little bit fake.
Like, for example, but it does help people with their self-confidence, right?
Sometimes, for example, with the case of breast implants, some women feel very, very self-conscious
about them having smaller breasts.
They want to get bigger breasts and they feel more confident, happier, and stuff like this.
I guess if it helps and if you really want it, everyone's to their own.
Well, I'm curious what our users think about this.
Have you had plastic surgery?
Would you like to have plastic surgery?
Let us know on our website, EnglishPod.com.
And my name is Catherine and today we're going on a little driving lesson.
We're going to learn how to drive, but not only how to drive, but all the vocabulary
and words associated to this activity.
So why don't we listen to this dialogue for the first time and we'll be back to explain
Okay, I'm ready for my driving lesson.
Should I start the car?
Hold on there, Fittipaldi.
First let's go over things one more time.
Now before you even think of starting the car, make sure your seat is at a comfortable
position and you can grip the steering wheel firmly.
Next, check your rearview mirrors to make sure you can see properly.
We've been through this a million times.
Let's get going already.
I'm ready.
Start the car.
Okay, now gently step on the clutch and shift to first gear.
Now, accelerate gently and let go of the clutch as you do it.
I'm doing it.
I'm driving.
This is awesome.
Let's turn some music on.
Keep your eyes on the road.
No music.
We are coming up to a red light.
Step on the brakes.
I said the brakes.
Look out for those people.
Get off the sidewalk.
Get out of my way.
This is just like playing video games.
It's the police.
Pull over.
They'll never take me alive.
So, it's a great driving lesson just like the video games.
Well, hopefully not like video games.
We don't want to hurt anyone.
But that comes a little bit later.
First, let's check out some of these very important phrases in today's Language Takeaway.
So, on Language Takeaway, we have five words for you today.
Starting with the first one, the steering wheel.
Okay, steering wheel.
So, this comes from the fact that we have a wheel that we use to turn the car left and
right.
And so, that's called to steer, to change the direction of something.
So, the verb to steer is to take it left or right.
So, steering wheel is the instrument that we use to change the car's direction.
And, well, apart from this instrument, also in order to look to other cars that are behind
you, you would look at your rear view mirror.
So, rear view mirror.
This is a mirror that you have in front of you in the middle of the car.
And you look at this mirror to find out if there are cars behind you.
So, it's a rear view.
That means you're looking at the back.
Rear means back or behind.
What about the mirrors that are on the side of the car, on the doors?
Those are called side view mirrors.
Side view mirrors.
Very literal.
And, well, moving on, he was instructing her on how to drive and he said, step on the clutch.
Well, this is an important word for those of you who are driving manual cars.
It means that you have to control the way that the gas goes into the engine by yourself.
And so, a clutch is a pedal.
It's the third pedal on the left and you push this pedal to change gears.
So, some cars, they don't have this.
For those of you who don't, don't worry about it.
But if you do, a clutch is on the far left.
It's the third pedal.
Okay, so this is for a manual car, manual transmission car because many people have
automatics where you just accelerate and the car automatically changes gears.
And so, a lot of Europeans drive manual cars and have this clutch.
Okay, so you step on the clutch and in order to change gear, you say to shift into first gear.
That's right because if you're driving, you know that you can't go from first to fifth gear, right?
There's four or five gears and so you have to go one, two, three, four, five.
You have to go in order.
So, we're shifting.
We're moving up or we're moving down.
So, that's called to shift.
All right, to shift.
And now, in the dialogue, we heard to shift into first gear.
So, that's what it's called.
And so, normally, the car starts in N, neutral.
That was when you're at a break, you're at a stop.
And if you want to start the car, you have to shift to first gear and that's the lowest.
That's going to help the car go.
Okay, so to shift into first gear.
Awesome vocabulary.
I think this is really useful especially because it's very specific so you don't really see it very often in anywhere.
But sometimes, you need to use it.
That's right and it's especially useful if you're trying to teach someone.
How to drive.
Yeah, because not everyone knows how to drive manual.
So, why don't we listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back to explain Fluency Builder.
Fluency Builder
First, let's go over things one more time.
Now, before you even think of starting the car, make sure your seat is at a comfortable position and you can grip the steering wheel firmly.
Next, check your rear view mirrors to make sure you can see properly.
Fine, start the car.
Oh, this is just like playing video games.
So now, why don't we take a look at four key phrases in Fluency Builder.
Well, the first phrase is maybe the most important when driving.
It's the first thing you do.
You start the car.
All right, so you don't say you turn on the car, right?
So you put the key in the ignition and you start the car.
That means you turn it on.
What about when you want to turn off the car?
Turn the car off.
You say stop the engine.
Stop the car.
Stop the engine, right?
Moving on, our next phrase is a million times.
Why is this a phrase, a million times?
It's pretty literal, right?
Well, no, it's not literal.
Otherwise, I think I might kill the person.
Because a million times means that we've had this same conversation many, many, many times.
But you can't actually have it a million times.
That's way too many.
So it's an exaggeration.
Yeah, it's a way to say a lot.
So I've heard him say this a million times.
I've heard this story a million times.
Or I've done this.
I've turned the car on a million times.
Okay, awesome.
And now, well, they were driving and they heard a police siren and the guy told her to pull over.
Okay, so this is a very common car phrase again, especially when you're dealing with the police.
So to pull over means to slow the car down and to stop it on the side of the road.
So you could hear a policeman say, pull over.
So pull over your car.
That means slow down and stop the car on the side.
Because obviously you can't stop in the middle of the road.
And sometimes your mobile phone will ring as well.
And you don't have a hands-free, so you have to pull over to the side so you can pick up the phone.
Usually, right?
Or you could say, hey, mom, could you pull over?
I have to use the restroom.
And our last phrase for today is to take me alive, to take someone alive.
That's what the character says.
And so this is a phrase that we use when we're talking about people who are running away from the law.
So he says, they'll never capture me.
And if they do, I'll be dead.
So he's saying either I run free or I die.
So to take someone alive is basically that.
But is it literal?
Would you say?
No, this is not literal.
He's saying, they'll never catch me.
So that's all the phrases we have for today.
Why don't we listen to this dialogue for the last time.
And we'll be back.
I'm ready for my driving lesson.
Now gently step on the clutch and shift to first gear.
Now accelerate gently and let go of the clutch as you do it.
So this is interesting because as you mentioned, a lot of people in America usually have automatic
transmissions, whereas in Europe maybe they have manual transmissions.
Is there a reason for that, do you think?
I'm not sure what the reason would be.
I think a lot of American car makers manufacture more automatic cars in general.
Some people say that it's because people in America are less concerned with gas, but if
you have a manual transmission, you can actually conserve a bit of gas.
And so because gas prices in Europe are higher generally, more people are interested in having
manual transmissions.
Also, I remember when I was younger, my dad always bought cars that had a manual transmission
because he said that if ever they break down, it's much easier and cheaper to fix a car
that has a manual transmission than it is to fix an automatic one.
Well, and I personally think that it's better to learn how to drive on a manual transmission
car because you can drive any car afterwards, but if you learn on an automatic, you'll never
know how to drive a manual.
There was also a case on television recently about a small child that actually the dialogue
is based on it, is he took his dad's car and he was like seven years old and he was driving
and was being chased by the police.
And then he pulled into his house and got out of the car and ran into the house.
So obviously he was an underage driver, but he didn't get into much trouble.
But it was interesting because he drove very, very well.
That's unbelievable.
And basically almost learned it by game simulators, by video games on how you drive on a video game.
Yeah, so.
Well, NASCAR, here he comes.
So if you have any questions, any comments or any other suggestions for lessons, please
come to our website, EnglishPod.com and we'll see you guys there.
And my name is Catherine and today we have an advanced media level lesson so that's the
very highest of our levels.
And we're going to be talking about a very popular tradition in North America, a Thanksgiving
dinner.
Okay, so Thanksgiving is a very special holiday for Americans and Canadians also celebrate
And different dates, right?
Canadians have it on a different date.
In fact, I'm not sure what the Canadian date is but Americans celebrate it at the end of
November.
The day changes every year because it's a Thursday.
But we usually have the day off from work or school and we all eat together and celebrate
the year and celebrate the harvest and celebrate our families and friends.
So this tradition of Thanksgiving, what do you commemorate or what do you celebrate?
Well, we actually celebrate the first harvest that the pilgrims had when they were right
off the boat in New England.
So that's the eastern part of America.
These people had come from England and they were trying to find a new land and a new life
and they ended up in the Massachusetts area and they didn't know how to farm.
They didn't know how to work the land.
And so the Native Americans who were living there at the time helped them out, helped
them grow corn, helped them find out how to use the land in a productive way.
And so when that first harvest happened, everyone was able to grow, it was actually a year after
they arrived, everyone was able to grow corn and food and crops and then they all shared
a meal together to celebrate this wonderful occasion.
And it actually helped them survive the winter because most of the pilgrims, most of the
settlers, they died during the first winter.
And so this was a really great, great thing for them.
That's really interesting, an interesting aspect of history and why this is celebrated
mostly as you say in North America and Canada and that's why many other countries don't
really have it.
It's a popular get together and what you usually have is a turkey, right?
So a turkey is a very big bird and they go gobble, gobble, gobble, gobble.
And they have that kind of really red long kind of thing on their necks and big tail
or big tail feathers.
And they're delicious.
But the funny thing is about turkey that there's a chemical in it that makes you very sleepy.
Well, not a chemical, there's a protein in it that makes you very sleepy.
Oh really?
So after you eat dinner on Thanksgiving, everyone falls asleep on the sofa.
Well, Thanksgiving meals in the United States are very, very big.
They're very elaborate, right?
You'll not only have turkey, but you have pumpkin pie and you have mashed potatoes and
gravy and just like a table full of food.
And it's a way to celebrate, well to give thanks for all the things that you have.
And so we like to cook a lot of food to celebrate that.
And they're all fall foods.
So squash, pumpkin, potatoes, things like that.
So we have a dialogue here.
So it's just that.
It's a guy who is preparing a turkey dinner and also preparing pumpkin pie.
But he's doing it in a very peculiar way.
So why don't we listen to the dialogue and then we'll come back and just talk a little
bit about the different terms that he used.
Hello everyone and welcome back to our show.
Today we are going to learn how to cook the perfect Thanksgiving turkey.
I will share a secret that I have kept for over 30 years on how to cook the perfect,
most mouthwatering, juiciest turkey in the world.
First of all, we must bring out our key ingredient, whiskey.
You see, the grains used to make whiskey along with the alcohol brings out the flavor of
the turkey meat.
Let's pour one cup of whiskey on the turkey and serve yourself a cup as well.
Cheers!
Ah, that's good 12 year whiskey right there.
Okay, back to our turkey.
Preheat your oven to 475 degrees Fahrenheit.
Now have another cup of whiskey.
Now that the oven is hot, we place our bird on a rack inside a roasting pan.
Let's add some whiskey to give it some extra flavor.
And let's have another cup.
That hit the spot.
We can leave it in there for the next 45 minutes.
In the meantime, let's have another sip of whiskey and start with our delicious pumpkin
pie.
Lightly whisk together two eggs and the extra yolk in a large bowl.
Once that's ready, we can put sugar, spices such as cloves, grated nutmeg, and cinnamon
with some cream and dark rum into a saucepan.
Gently bring up to simmering point, stirring occasionally.
Now you may notice that we are using some dark rum in this pie.
This is because the richness of the pumpkin is beautifully enhanced by the dark rum.
So to celebrate this great occasion, pour yourself a glass.
Now that we have finished with the filling, let's bake the pie for 45 to 50 minutes until
the filling has puffed up around the edges and the center is almost set.
All done!
A cup of rum to celebrate the completion of this great Thanksgiving dinner.
After waiting for an hour and having a couple of drinks, it's time to check on our turkey.
Take the turkey out of the oven.
Pick the turkey off of the ground.
Don't worry, it will add flavor to this recipe.
Now also remove the pie from the oven and serve while still hot.
Cheers and Happy Thanksgiving!
All right we're back so I think this is going to be one great Thanksgiving dinner for him.
Oh my gosh and talking about this is making me so hungry.
This always happens when we have food lessons.
What about do you have any family members who actually drink a little bit too much during
Thanksgiving?
Yes and I won't say who.
So as he was preparing the Thanksgiving dinner, he mentioned a couple of things.
For example, a mouth-watering turkey.
Mouth-watering so this is a way to say appetizing.
You know when you see something delicious on TV and your mouth starts to water, you're
salivating.
It's like your brain is telling you that you want to eat it.
And so your mouth starts to water.
So we say that something that's very appetizing, something that looks like it will taste very
very good, it's mouth-watering.
All right so he was preparing a mouth-watering turkey.
So moving on, he mentioned that he had a key ingredient for his turkey and it was whiskey.
Not only whiskey but 12-year whiskey.
Okay so the thing about whiskey is that oftentimes on the label of a bottle they'll advertise
how old the whiskey is because you pay more for older whiskeys.
They just have better taste in many cases.
In this case it's a 12-year whiskey.
That means that it was stored in a cask for 12 years to let it age and then they sell
it after 12 years and so that's the special ingredient.
That's the special ingredient, 12-year whiskey.
And well he not only put it on the turkey but also he had a couple of drinks himself
and in one of those he mentioned that hit the spot.
What spot?
The spot.
Okay so this is a really common phrase in English that we use to say that something
is very satisfying.
So that hit the spot.
And not only for drinks right?
No you could use it for food or anything really.
So in this case I could say, oh so hungry that sandwich really hit the spot.
I really needed to eat right now and that sandwich was perfect.
That was perfect.
Now when he referred to the turkey, in one occasion he said we place our bird on a rack.
Alright so what's a bird and what's the rack?
Okay so this is really interesting.
We talk about the turkey often times when we're making commercials or talking about
recipes as the bird.
So you want to take out the bird, you want to open the packaging.
So the bird is the turkey.
A turkey is a kind of bird.
You can say this about chicken as well because it's another kind of bird.
But this is kind of a colloquial term in cooking for whatever bird you're cooking.
And when you're placing it on a rack, what's a rack?
Okay so in our ovens, an oven is a kitchen appliance that you have that heats up food.
But it's not like a microwave, it's much stronger.
And so inside there are metal bars.
We don't have, they're like shelves but they're open.
And so these metal bars are called a rack.
So you put the turkey in the oven on the rack.
Right, you can't put it on the base of the oven because then it would burn up.
And you don't have a shelf because that would be a problem.
And well, moving on the instructions when he was preparing the pumpkin pie, he told
us to lightly whisk together two eggs.
So we have a verb here, to whisk.
To whisk.
So that's not only a verb but a noun as well, right?
It's an instrument.
And this is a verb we often use with eggs.
So to whisk eggs.
You can also whisk like sauce for a salad, so like a salad dressing.
But it's a way that we stir something.
And so oftentimes we have an instrument called a whisk that's not like a fork.
It actually looks kind of funny.
It's got bars on it.
Like wire that kind of make a circle.
And they are very thin wires.
And you usually stir very, very, very quickly.
Especially if you have eggs, this will break up the egg and it becomes kind of like foamy.
Foamy, yeah.
To make like an omelet for example.
So to whisk is a kind of, it's a way to stir.
And then he mentioned some ingredients such as sugar, spices, and grated nutmeg.
So what is this verb, grated nutmeg?
Or an adjective, grated.
So this adjective, grated, means that, well it's a kind of way to cut up something.
And so you often hear the term grated cheese.
That means not a big chunk of cheese, but we push it against a board to get little pieces
of it to fall off.
And that's called grated cheese.
And so in this case we have grated nutmeg.
That means that it's been kind of, the nutmeg comes in, in very small pieces.
Yeah, pieces.
And we're breaking it down.
And he also mentioned something about bringing the sauce to a simmering point.
What is that simmering point?
Okay, simmering point is a time when you're cooking where the liquid goes from being calm
to being very agitated and moving.
But it's not boiling, right?
No, boiling means you have big bubbles.
Like boiling water.
But simmering is where it's kind of little bubbles, there's a little bit of action on
the surface of the liquid, but it's not boiling.
It's in the middle between flat and calm and agitated and boiling.
Okay, so that's the simmering point.
And that's pretty much all of the interesting phrases in the dialogue.
There are a lot more, but we don't really have time to cover that huge amount of rich
Why don't we listen to this dialogue one last time?
Ah, that's good 12-year whiskey right there.
So Thanksgiving dinner, really popular.
Catherine, have you ever cooked or are you into the whole Thanksgiving feast?
I'm very into it.
It's my favorite holiday in America, mostly because everyone gets to celebrate it.
It's not religious, so you don't have to worry about other people not celebrating it or not
knowing what to do.
And it's also a celebration about family and food.
And so it's just a wonderful experience to have Thanksgiving because you're with everybody.
And we always say in America that if someone doesn't have a place to go on Thanksgiving,
you should invite them to your house.
And so it's a very inviting and warm holiday.
And I love cooking and I love being in the kitchen and I love having people in the house
cooking and so yeah, I've definitely been a part of the cooking side of things.
Now in many movies, they kind of mock this holiday because it's a time where everyone
gets together, as you say, no matter religion, creed or race.
And that also causes for a lot of family members to get together and argue and have discussions
about politics or talk about family problems and stuff like that.
So what do you think of that?
Well, I think it's an exaggeration, but it happens.
People get very stressed out during the holidays.
They call it the holidays because this is beginning where you have Thanksgiving and
then later Christmas.
But I personally don't have experience with that really on Thanksgiving because it's such
a happy holiday for us.
So and in my family, arguments about politics and history and all that is very encouraged.
And so it's just a part of the holiday where we have, we have, you know, one person at
the table who says this and the other person says this and you're all drinking and it's
just, it's fun.
So if you guys have any other questions or doubts about this holiday, because as we say,
it's very common in North America and Canada, you can come to our website, EnglishPod.com.
And if you have any other questions or suggestions, you can leave those there as well.
We look forward to hearing what you have to say and happy Thanksgiving.
Happy Thanksgiving.
And my name is Catherine and today we have a great elementary level lesson all about
having fun.
Today we are going to have a lot of fun and well before we explain what exactly we're
going to do, why don't we take a look at vocabulary preview.
Okay, so the word we're previewing today is a noun.
It's a thing.
It's a roller coaster.
Alright a roller coaster.
So that's what we're going to do today.
We're going to get on a roller coaster.
But what is a roller coaster?
Well a roller coaster is something that we see often times in parks, amusement parks.
And it's like a little train but it can go upside down and it goes very fast and it turns
and it's supposed to make you scared and happy.
So it goes very fast and yeah many people have probably seen it.
It goes very fast and as you say up and down and well you just get on it because it's fun.
You go fast and you get scared because you're going so fast and sometimes you're going upside
down.
Exactly and for some reason, I don't know why, but in many romance languages the name
is Russian mountains.
It's also in Spanish it's also a Russian mountain.
Montaña rusa.
So I think the reason is because back in the day, back you know a hundred years ago when
they were starting, the first roller coasters came from Russia.
So that's why it's called like that.
Well that's a theory.
I'm not sure but take a listen to today's dialogue.
We'll hear it one time and when we come back we'll be talking about more interesting and
exciting phrases and words about roller coasters.
I'm so excited!
We're finally here!
Six Flags Magic Mountain.
This is the best amusement park in the world.
All right settle down now.
You're going to give yourself a heart attack.
I can't believe they charge us $35 each.
Seems like such a rip-off don't you think?
It's not like I'm going to get on these things.
Whoa Viper!
That's the world's highest and fastest roller coaster!
You go at more than 100 miles per hour.
I want to go on that one.
Can I mom please?
Can I?
Chris I'm not sure you should get on that.
It seems a bit too much for you and we just had breakfast 30 minutes ago.
I don't think it's a good idea.
Oh come on mom.
I can handle it.
I promise I won't ask for anything else.
Besides it's not like I'm going to throw up or anything.
Let him go Carol.
He'll be fine.
All right!
Yeah this is amazing!
See how high up we're going?
All right we're back.
So uh interesting that I think this is very common.
You get on one of these things, you go so fast that you just throw up.
Have you ever thrown up?
On a roller coaster?
No never.
No me neither.
All right well maybe it's not that common but let's take a look at some of the words
that we hear in this conversation between a boy and his parents.
All right so as we mentioned this word throw up, to throw up.
Why don't we take a look at that one first although it's almost at the end of the dialogue.
What is it to throw up?
Okay well to throw is different than to throw up.
So remember that these two words go together to mean to vomit.
That means that the things in your stomach come out your mouth.
So like we heard in the dialogue they came in like bleh.
Yeah it's a very disgusting sound right?
And so sometimes people throw up when they eat too much, sometimes they throw up when
they're sick, and sometimes they throw up after riding a roller coaster.
And so this is an important phrase to know.
Or like when you're on a boat you get seasick and you throw up.
Or in a car sometimes you get carsick.
All right so as we mentioned we're also visiting an amusement park.
So why don't we explain this word a little bit, amusement park.
Okay first of all everyone probably knows the word park.
You know it's a public place.
But in this case an amusement park is a park of fun.
Amusement means fun.
And so it's usually a place that you go to and you pay a price and they give you a ticket
and you can play all day long.
So they have roller coasters and food and shows.
And probably the most famous or well known amusement park is Disneyland.
So that's an amusement park.
Exactly and there's lots of fun things to do for people of all ages.
All right and now the kid was so excited that the mom said all right you're gonna give yourself
a heart attack.
Okay well a heart attack is another serious health issue.
We talked about throwing up before.
Is when your heart stops beating.
So maybe something is stuck or there's some problem with your heart and there's no more
blood going through your heart.
And so it's a very very serious issue.
But in this case she's saying you're so excited you might hurt your heart.
You're gonna have a heart attack.
You might hurt yourself because you're so excited.
Right so she's exaggerating.
That's not really going to happen but she's trying to warn him.
All right and now the father mentioned that they paid $35 for each of their tickets and
he thought it was a ripoff.
Okay ripoff is a great great phrase that we use in spoken English to describe something
that's unfair.
So a price that's unfair.
Okay so you can maybe go to the market right and you ask how much a sweater is and they'll
tell you it's $100.
You think that's a ripoff.
What a ripoff!
I can buy a sweater for $20.
So a hundred is definitely a ripoff.
All right so that's a ripoff.
It was a ripoff.
He's not very happy with how much money he paid.
All right and now the kid was talking about the roller coaster that is the highest and
fastest roller coaster and he said that the speed was at more than a hundred miles per
hour.
So what about this miles per hour?
Okay this is very important if you go to America you'll see that the speeds on the road are
all in miles per hour.
So mile is a distance.
And per hour means how many miles you can travel every hour.
So in one hour you can go a hundred miles.
So we have the equivalent right?
We have like kilometers per hour.
Exactly and so miles per hour, kilometers per hour, these are both called speeds.
And well this is called the imperial system right?
You use miles, you use inches and feet whereas the kilometers or centimeters or meters you
would use the metric system right?
Exactly because the counting is done by meters.
Meters metric.
So in this case we're in America we know that because the speed limit is a hundred miles
or the speed here is a hundred miles an hour.
We know that we're in America because the speed the boy is talking about is miles per
Very good and I think yeah use it in North America and that's pretty much it right?
I think they use miles in Britain.
I'm positive I'd have to check with my British friends.
Alright okay so that's all the words we have for language takeaway.
Let's listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back to explain some phrases.
This is the best amusement park in the world!
Alright settle down now.
You're gonna give yourself a heart attack.
It seems like such a ripoff don't you think?
It's not like I'm gonna get on these things.
Whoa Viper that's the world's highest and fastest roller coaster!
It seems a bit too much for you and we've just had breakfast 30 minutes ago.
Come on mom.
Besides it's not like I'm gonna throw up or anything.
Alright!
Yeah!
This is amazing!
Alright we're back so now why don't we start with three phrases that we have prepared for
you today in Fluency Builder.
Okay this first phrase Marco is definitely a parent phrase.
Okay so this is something that you often hear parents saying to their children.
They say settle down now.
Settle down now.
Teachers say this too.
Alright everyone settle down.
That means if I'm really excited and I want to talk and I'm running around the room and
my teacher says settle down now that means quiet down, go slowly, sit down, don't talk.
It means calm down.
Calm down yeah.
So to calm down to relax.
Settle down.
Alright and now the next phrase is a very kids phrase I think right?
That you would use on your parents.
So if they say no you can't go to your friend's house.
Oh come on please.
Oh mom come on.
Alright so what do you mean with that phrase?
Come on come on what?
So in this we have a child who's asking something.
He's saying can you please let me do something.
Please come on.
That means I'm encouraging you to change your mind or to let me do something.
So please let me have my way.
Right right.
Alright so come on and you don't only use it as a child or with your parents right?
You can encourage your friends to like come on come with me to the bar.
Come on let's go.
Please.
You know you want to.
And our last phrase I can handle it.
Okay this is next to the phrase oh come on.
So the boy is trying to explain that he's big enough and old enough to go on a roller
coaster but his mother doesn't know.
She says oh I don't know.
You know you're too young.
And so he says I can handle it.
That means I am big enough and old enough to go on a roller coaster.
I won't have a problem.
So you can do it right.
Basically I am good enough to do it.
So for example if I give you a very hard project you can say I can handle it.
I can do it.
You could also say I am very busy right now.
I can't handle it.
I can't.
I can't do it.
Interesting phrases there.
They're very useful and very very common in spoken English in North America and well
a lot of places.
So why don't we listen to the dialogue for the third time and we'll be back.
We're finally here.
I can't believe I'm here.
Seems like such a ripoff, don't you think?
Viper.
That's the world's highest and fastest roller coaster.
Can I, mom, please?
Chris, I'm not sure you should get on that.
Come on, mom.
Besides, it's not like I'm going to throw up or anything.
Let him go, Kel.
Yeah, this is amazing.
So this amusement park, Magic Mountain, it actually is a little bit bigger than I thought.
All right, so this amusement park, Magic Mountain, it actually exists in the United States, right?
And Six Flags is really a brand, so there are many different amusement parks called
Six Flags and each one has a different name.
I'm not sure where Magic Mountain is, but-
That one's in California.
Then you have Six Flags Greater America or something like that.
Yeah, that's my Chicago Six Flags.
That's the one in Chicago?
So they're basically amusement parks and they're famous because they have really great or intense
roller coasters, right?
So the one that we heard about in today's dialogue is called Viper, like the snake,
and that one is at the amusement park in California you mentioned.
But the famous ride in Chicago is Batman the Ride.
Because you sit on a seat, but there's no place for your feet, so your feet swing in
the wind.
And it's very fast and you don't actually sit on a train, right?
The track is on top of your head.
And you're hanging like a bat.
So you see everyone downstairs.
Well, not downstairs, down at the bottom.
And I hear they have a very serious problem with people losing their shoes.
I heard about this.
Yeah, so-
People wearing sandals and they just fly off.
So I want to warn everyone, if you go to Chicago or you go to these upside down, these flipped
roller coasters, you should bring real shoes, not sandals.
Well, as we mentioned, in many languages, in the Romance languages, they're called Russian
Mountains.
I wonder, for our Russian listeners, do you have any intense or great roller coasters
in Russia?
I mean, if they come from Russia, they should have amazing roller coasters there, right?
Or do you have any idea why we call them Russian Mountains in other languages?
Please let us know.
Our website is EnglishPod.com.
We also welcome your questions and comments on other issues.
So until next time, everyone.
Let's get back to business.
And today we're talking about a very important day in a couple's life.
We're going to a wedding.
But this time, it's not going to be so romantic because actually the groom is having second
thoughts about the wedding.
Okay, that means he's nervous and he's not positive he wants to get married today.
So remember the groom is the man, the bride is the woman.
Let's jump right into this dialogue.
Listen to what's going on and when we come back, we'll be talking about some of the words
and phrases you've heard.
Man, I'm freaking out.
You gotta help me.
Whoa, whoa, take it easy.
Jeez, you're sweating like a pig.
I just can't.
I'm not ready for marriage.
What was I thinking?
I'm only 35 years old.
I've got my entire life ahead of me.
Adventure's waiting.
I can't settle down yet.
It wasn't more than a month ago that you were rambling on about how you are tired of living
the life of a bachelor and how you envy your friends that have a family.
Let's think this through.
First of all, you cannot leave Amy at the altar.
Not only will she be humiliated and kill you, but she is the woman that you love and the
woman of your dreams.
Why would you want to end that or jeopardize it like this?
Second of all, you are just getting cold feet.
You know deep down inside that you want to marry her.
So cut the crap and do it.
I'm being crazy.
Okay, I'm ready.
Let's do this.
Phew, that was a close one.
You had me going there for a minute.
I thought I was going to have to slap some sense into you.
So almost, he almost didn't get married, but luckily you have a good friend to help you
So this friend really saved the day, made sure that the groom didn't get too nervous
and had some really positive words.
So let's take a listen to some of these marriage words in today's Language Takeaway.
Alright, so as you mentioned, we have this word marriage.
Now marriage is the noun form, right, of actually getting married or to be married.
Marriage is the noun, the word that describes the relationship between two married people.
Okay, and so you have a relationship, maybe you're dating, but once you get married, the
thing between you as a man and a woman, that's your marriage.
Your marriage.
You could say our marriage is in danger.
We need to work on our marriage.
It's a happy marriage.
Okay, so that's marriage.
Now if you get married, and this guy, he mentioned a phrase which was to settle down.
To settle down.
This is a very important phrase.
To settle down means to get serious, mature, and to stop living like a child.
It means really to have a house or to start having kids.
It's a time in life.
So to settle down is to become more stable, right?
As you say, to buy a house, to have a family, to stay in one place and not be so adventurous
or stuff like that.
So it's to calm down and to be more fixed in life.
Now the opposite of this would be to be a bachelor.
So bachelor is a single man, someone who's not married.
And you often hear this term when we talk about apartments.
So bachelor pad is an apartment that's specific to a single man.
Usually there's lots of video games and a fancy TV and a pool table.
So bachelor.
We had a lesson about this called bachelor party.
Which is a party for a man right before he gets married.
And bachelor is a special word for a man who's not yet married.
And now as they were talking about not getting married, he said that you can't leave Amy
at the altar.
So you often hear this in movies.
She got left at the altar or you can't leave her at the altar.
This word altar is actually religious.
Altar is the table in a church where the priest does all of his work.
So an altar is a special religious table.
So usually two people will stand in front of an altar and get married right with the
priest who is doing his thing there.
He says, do you Joe take Samantha to be your bride?
Blah, blah, blah.
So that happens at a special place called the altar.
And not at the normal mass like on Sundays.
And for the last word or phrase today, it's to get cold feet.
You're just getting cold feet.
So this is a very funny phrase in English because it doesn't actually mean that your
cold feet are cold.
So cold feet means you're nervous about something.
You might change your mind.
So people often talk about men and women getting cold feet before a wedding.
But you can also relate it to any other situation, not only getting married.
For example, I'm going to go jump out of an airplane tomorrow.
Fast forward tomorrow.
Oh no, I have cold feet.
I don't think I want to jump out of an airplane.
So that's to get cold feet.
To have second thoughts or doubts about actually doing something.
Cold feet.
Let's keep a lookout for all of these words and we'll be back in a little bit.
You got to help me.
Whoa, whoa.
You know deep down inside that you'd want to marry her.
Phew.
So now why don't we take a look at four key phrases that we found in this dialogue on
This first one is a really great phrase because it's very, well, it's easy to picture this
what we're describing.
To sweat like a pig.
You're sweating like a pig.
This is a way to say that someone is sweating a lot.
And it's really gross or disgusting.
Now do pigs actually sweat?
I don't know if pigs actually sweat but you imagine someone smells bad and they have sweat
on their face and their back and their arms.
Well, sometimes don't you say you're sweating like a dog?
You could also say that.
I guess we like animals in English but this is just a really great way to say that someone
is really sweaty.
And well, he was sweating and he was really nervous because he said, I can't go through
with this.
What does he mean go through with this?
With what?
To go through with means to actually do something.
So maybe I say, I don't want to jump out of an airplane.
I can't jump.
So it depends on what we're actually talking about.
If we're talking about a wedding, you say, I can't go through with this.
I can't get married.
So if you're planning a robbery, you say, well, in the last minute, I couldn't go through
with it.
I backed out.
I can't complete what I talked about doing.
And now the friend, he finally gets kind of angry and he says, cut the crap.
Oh man, this is a very common phrase.
This is someone says this if they don't want to listen to you complain anymore.
Marco, cut the crap.
I don't want to hear your excuses.
I don't want to hear your complaints.
I want to just hear solutions, solutions, ideas, positive things.
So to cut the crap is no more complaints, no more excuses or no more talking nonsense.
And this is, this is common among teachers and well, parents.
So cut the crap.
Now it's not very polite, right?
So you wouldn't really say it to your boss or like a friend.
Cut the crap is kind of rude and it's very spoken language.
So I wouldn't write it down and I would not use this with someone who is like a teacher.
Well, yeah, like an authority.
You don't use it with them.
They might use it with you.
And for our last phrase, he said, whew, you had me going there for a while or you had
me going there for a minute.
So this is a really interesting phrase.
We use this a lot in English, but it's not clear from listening to it what it might mean.
So you had me going there in this sense means, Oh, I was really nervous for a minute.
I really believed what you were saying.
So maybe we could give an example, Marco.
Um, did you know that yesterday I won the lottery?
I mean, I won like a million dollars and I had the perfect numbers.
Can I have a million dollars?
I would love to help you out, man.
But uh, yeah, no, I didn't actually win a million dollars.
You actually did for a little while.
You believed me.
Maybe not.
He's not that gullible.
But that, that's what it means, right?
To believe someone's story or to think that, um, something's going to happen even though
it doesn't.
You had me going there.
That means what you thought was going to happen, didn't happen.
So you can use it in the third person is like, yeah, I was telling him this awesome story
and I really had him going for a while.
He really believed me.
And then I told him it wasn't true.
Well, that's it for today's episode of the podcast.
We hope you enjoyed it.
If you did, please like, share, and subscribe.
We'll see you next time.
We're never done, Amy, you've got an entire life ahead of me.
Adventures waiting.
the life of a Bachelor and how you envy your friends that have a family.
Not only will she be humiliated and kill you, but she's the woman that you love and the
Second of all, you were just getting cold feet.
Alright, so this is a popular scenario, right?
Everybody on their wedding day, they get cold feet and they back out.
TV, movies, books, everyone loves this situation.
Have you ever actually heard of or experienced or maybe known of somebody who actually left
the bride at the altar or the groom at the altar?
I don't know anyone who did that.
Luckily, I think it's really sad.
Yeah, me neither.
I don't think it's really that common.
No, but there was a movie just about this.
So there's a woman, Julia Roberts, who tries and tries and tries to get married but never
can so it's called Runaway Bride because every time she goes to the altar, she gets nervous.
She gets cold feet and she runs away.
They call her the Runaway Bride.
I can't imagine this actually happening to someone.
I mean, you have all your family there, your friends.
It'd be so embarrassing.
And expensive.
Exactly, because you've already paid for everything.
So do you get to eat the cake if you're the one who's left behind?
Everything's paid for, right?
And drink all the liquor.
Alright, so that's all the time we have for today.
If you have any questions, any comments, you can come to our website at EnglishPod.com
Thanks for watching Life with Eli.
So, Marco, what are we talking about here today?
Today we're going shopping again.
We go shopping a lot here at EnglishPod, but this is an upper intermediate level lesson,
so we've got some very specific terminology to cover.
We're going shopping for a digital camera, so we're going to be talking about very specific,
maybe a little bit technical vocab related to this very fascinating and expensive product.
I'm very excited.
I recently purchased a camera, but we won't talk about that yet.
Let's take a listen to the dialogue for the first time, and when we come back, we can
talk about some of the really interesting details.
Hello, ma'am.
Can I help you find something?
Yes, actually.
I'm looking to buy a camera.
We've got a wide selection.
Do you know if you'd like a point and shoot or something a little fancier?
Are you shopping for yourself or for someone else?
Actually, I'm buying a camera for my husband.
Ah, well, then I'd recommend a nice entry level digital SLR.
Can I take a look at the SLRs you carry?
Follow me.
This here is the...
The Canon EOS.
Yeah, it's okay, but I'm looking for something that performs better in low light, has a better
display panel, and longer battery life.
Oh, uh, um, the Nikon D60 is a nice option.
Yeah, but what kit lens does this camera come with?
I don't want some bulky telephoto lens.
Uh, well, this one has the, uh...
Looks to me like an 18 to 55 millimeter lens.
Pretty standard.
That'll do.
Not like my husband will be stalking celebrities or anything.
Ah, so, um, can I interest you in any acc...
Accessories?
Do you carry polarizing filters?
Polarizing filters?
Um, we should.
I'm sorry, ma'am, looks like we're sold out.
No, you're not.
There are some right here.
Oh, well, would you look at that.
Polarizing filters.
Thanks for your help, Ralph.
No problem, ma'am.
Alright we're back.
So apparently this girl knew more than the salesman about this, uh, these things.
Is this from real life experience?
Uh, well, we can get to that later, like I said, but, uh, there are some very important
words that anyone who wants to buy a camera should know before they go into the store,
and these are common across the board.
So let's take a look at these in today's Language Takeaway.
Alright, so in Language Takeaway today we have our first, um, difference.
Now it's very important to know the difference between point and shoot camera and the digital
SLR.
Okay, so digital, everyone knows digital now, right?
That's the kind of photography we have.
You don't use film, okay?
Use the memory card.
Um, to record digital images, but point and shoot are those little cameras where you just
click and it takes a picture.
There's no lens, a special, there's no additional lens, there's no special add-ons.
It's a small rectangle and you just take normal pictures.
And that's the kind of camera that like my mom uses.
Everyone usually has those.
I have it in my purse and whatever.
It's just easy to use.
Um, but the digital SLR is the kind of camera that's like the old SLR where you have an,
like an attachment of a, you have a body and you have a lens and they're just much fancier
and you have to do a lot more on your own to make a nice picture.
Now SLR, that's an acronym.
Do you know what it stands for?
So an SLR is a single lens reflex camera and that means that there's a lot more you have
to do as the photographer to make sure that the picture comes out well.
Right, so it's really interesting because you can actually play with the lens, like
the focus and you know how much light you want to allow it to go in.
And there's a lot of really, you know, sometimes a little bit difficult things that not many
people understand.
And so I think that's why it's good to do some research before you buy one because there's
so many differences across the different cameras.
Okay, now both on digital SLRs and on point and shoot cameras, you have something that's
called the display panel.
The display panel is usually covered in plastic and it's the area that tells you how many
pictures you've taken, how many pictures you can take, if the flash is on, if you're doing
an automatic setting.
So it's like the little computer monitor that tells you what's going on with the camera.
Usually after you take a picture, you can also see how it came out, right?
In that moment.
And so a lot of times with these fancy cameras, you want to know how big the display panel
is and how good the quality is in the display panel.
Because obviously if you take a picture and it shows up bad in the display panel, you
want to take a new one.
But what if it's the display panel that's broken?
And that's actually one of the great advantages of digital cameras that you can actually see
how your picture looks like.
Instant gratification.
Now when she was looking to buy this digital SLR, she mentioned something about a kit lens.
Okay, this is fancy camera terminology, right?
Because if you buy a point and shoot, there's no lens.
It's just the camera.
But if you're buying a fancy digital SLR, you can buy the body, which means the machine,
but there's no lens.
So normally people will sell, stores will sell cameras with a kit lens.
That means they make a kit or they make a combination for you.
So it's the body and the lens.
But if you want, you can buy the body and the lens separate.
Maybe you want a really fancy lens.
So what's the kind of fancy lens we might buy?
A telephoto lens.
So these are the really big lenses for super close up shots from a distance, right?
So you think of maybe professional photographers or photojournalists who had these kinds of
lenses.
They're big and they're bulky and they're not for traveling.
Usually you see them in like sporting events, right?
They're on the side of the field and they have these big white, they're usually white
lenses on their cameras.
So you can actually take a very close picture of the action that's far away.
And it's really good for those kinds of things where you have action or where you're trying
to get close ups.
And now if one of these accessories that could go well with a telephoto lens or any digital
SLR is a polarizing filter.
Okay, so filter is something that takes certain elements out of something else.
So we can filter coffee for example and it takes the coffee grounds out and leaves the
water.
But in a camera, a polarizing filter is something we put onto the glass of the lens to change
the way that light goes into the lens.
So in this way you take a picture maybe of a very sunny day and it will look differently
if you didn't have this filter.
And you can also have a UV filter which does similar things with UV rays in the sunlight.
And these are just filters or things you put on the camera and polarizing means that you're
splitting up the kind of light that goes in.
Very technical terms but they're very useful especially if you're looking to buy one of
these cameras and you're not very familiar with the terms.
But why don't we move on now to some very interesting phrases that we saw in the dialogue
on Fluency Builder.
So on Fluency Builder our first phrase today is entry level.
What's an entry level digital SLR?
Well entry level is something that we can use for any kind of purchase.
So any kind of thing that we buy.
In the case of a camera, an entry level is not for an expert or professional.
It's something for someone who's buying one for the first time.
Like for beginners.
For beginners.
So entry level is like entry, beginning, starting.
We can have an entry level job where you don't need training or experience.
An entry level camera where you don't need long experience with fancy cameras.
Or training to know how to use it.
So that's an entry level camera but as you mentioned we can also use it for the job.
An entry level job position.
What about our second phrase?
So this one goes with the telephoto lens, right?
She says I don't need a telephoto lens.
My husband doesn't need a telephoto lens.
It's not like he's going to be stalking celebrities.
So we have this verb here.
That means to follow someone around.
And to look at them and to watch them and to not leave them alone.
Now she mentioned this because this is a very interesting and closely associated topic with
photographers.
You know you have the paparazzi who follow celebrities and they have these big telephoto
lens so they can take pictures of celebrities without them knowing.
And so you imagine someone in a tree with a big telephoto lens taking a photo of someone
famous who's you know half a mile away.
And stalking celebrities is something that's a bad thing, right?
It's bad.
But it's very common.
And also illegal I think.
And I think it's illegal.
Would you look at that?
Well he said it in a very surprised tone, right?
Kind of like he didn't really expect to find the polarizing filters.
So he's embarrassed.
Would you look at that means oh wow I'm surprised.
Uh huh.
So it's awkward.
So you could say Marco you got a little bit of food on your shirt?
You've had it for like an hour.
Oh the beans I had.
That's really embarrassing.
I've got food on my shirt.
So this man who works at the store, he's embarrassed because he didn't know something he should
know.
And so he says oh would you look at that?
How funny.
I didn't see those.
Now we can also maybe use it in a sarcastic tone, right?
If I tell somebody can you bring me my glasses that are on the table?
And they're like I can't find them.
They're not here.
And then I find them.
Here they are.
On your head the whole time.
That's my mom.
I've been wearing my glasses the whole time.
So why don't we listen to the dialogue for the last time and we'll be back to talk about
digital SLRs.
Hello ma'am.
Yes actually.
Actually I'm buying a camera for my husband.
Ah well then I'd recommend a nice entry level digital SLR.
Yeah it's okay but I'm looking for something that performs better in low light, has a better
display panel and longer battery life.
Oh ah um the Nikon D60 is a nice option.
Yeah but what kit lens does this camera come with?
Ah well this one has the um...
Looks to me like an 18-55mm lens.
Ah ha ha.
So um can I interest you in any acce...
Um we should.
I'm sorry ma'am looks like we're sold out.
No you're not.
There's some right here.
Oh well would you look at that.
Thanks for your help...
Ralph.
No problem ma'am.
Alright we're back so you mentioned you recently bought a digital SLR camera.
How's that working out?
I'm loving it.
I'm...
I have to actually train myself on how to use it because I used to have an old film
camera that had...
It was actually a Nikon as well and it's uh...
It's different using a digital SLR.
There's a lot of things you can do that are very fancy because you...
You actually...
There's a computer inside essentially.
So it's uh...
It's...
I'm getting used to it.
So what's the difference in pictures like from a point and shoot to a digital SLR?
Does it really make a great difference?
Are you very happy with it?
There is a big difference and part of the difference is that you can control every aspect
of the photo.
So my digital camera was a small little Canon.
You know the little...
What are they called?
The Power Shoot?
And it made...
It took great pictures because you know these cameras have amazing pixel quality.
They have like 7.1 megapixels or like 9.1 megapixels.
So the quality is really good.
But everything looks the same.
If I have my digital camera, my digital SLR, I can frame a shot and I can focus on one
person but make everyone else blurry.
I can really make more artistic photos whereas the point and shoot is great for parties and
for everyday stuff.
Just like everyday stuff.
Now what about traveling?
You have a dilemma there, right?
Because you visit very beautiful places where you would love to take very nice pictures
with a digital SLR but at the same time the inconvenience of it of actually...
Because they're pretty big.
All of them are pretty big.
So where would you go on that?
Would you use the point and shoot or the digital SLR?
Well that's a good question.
One of the reasons that I picked the lens that I did is because it's not immense but
I really want to be able to do some like landscape photography and I travel a lot so I think
it's worthwhile to suck it up and just take the camera because otherwise why did you buy
it, right?
Alright, so an interesting topic here on EnglishPod and I'm sure a lot of our users travel around,
like to take pictures or maybe are experts on digital photography so why don't you come
to the website EnglishPod.com.
We'll see you there and until next time.
For EnglishPod, I'm Dziękuję and have a great weekend.
And today we have a very exciting elementary lesson for you.
We are going to take our clothes to the dry cleaners.
So that means we have some dirty clothes.
They need to be cleaned.
Let's listen to this dialogue one time and when we come back, we'll be talking about
the words and phrases that you hear in it.
Thank God you're open.
I have an emergency.
Hello Mr. Henderson.
I need this dress and this suit dry cleaned ASAP.
I can have it ready by the end of the week.
No, you don't understand.
I need this tomorrow morning.
I accidentally spilled beer all over my wife's dress and we have a wedding to attend tomorrow.
She's going to kill me.
I can have it ready tomorrow afternoon.
But this suit is also very stained.
I can't guarantee we can remove it completely.
Can you also iron and starch this shirt?
This is our secret.
If you see my wife, say nothing to her about this.
Now there are probably a couple of words that you didn't understand so why don't we look
Marco, you already told our listeners about one phrase, to dry clean.
So dry cleaned.
Alright so that's when you take your clothes to a professional who doesn't only wash them,
You don't just put water and soap on it.
They actually put some special chemicals and use special machines to get very hard to remove
stains from it.
So this is often what we use when we clean coats or fancy shirts and dresses because
you don't want to clean those yourself.
You can't put those in the washing machine.
So this is the dry cleaner.
That's the name of the place.
And the action, what they do is they dry clean clothes.
So we take them to the dry cleaners because we want to remove stains.
So a stain is a mark or some color that does not come off, does not go away.
So for example, sometimes you can have a wine stain.
Oh, wine stains are the worst.
They're red and they never come off.
Or blood stain.
So a stain is a noun but you can also use it as an adjective.
My shirt is stained.
So it's stained.
My pants are stained and I can't wear them again.
Again, you can also use it as a verb.
I stained my pants.
So it's a verb, it's a noun and an adjective all in one.
Easy to remember.
Well, there's another word that's related to this word.
We spilled something.
So I spilled wine and it stained my shirt.
So to spill and that means that you took some liquid and you put it onto your clothes.
Or you dropped it and it made a mess.
So spill.
I spilled some milk.
Spilled.
Now it's pronounced differently from spell, right?
Spill.
It has an I, spilled.
Now our next word is also a noun and a verb.
To iron.
To iron means to make something flat with no lines.
To smooth it out.
So we use an iron to iron.
It's a metal electronic object.
It gets very hot.
So you wash your shirts for example and your shirts are wrinkled because you just washed
So you need to iron them.
So you smooth them out, you flatten them with this object, an iron.
And well, usually if you take them to the dry cleaners, they will iron them and also
starch them.
To starch something means to use some powder or chemical to make something stiff or hard.
So the noun or the chemical is also called starch.
So you think of a shirt with many buttons that a man wears to work.
He has a collar around his neck and that needs to be high and tall.
It can't be flat and wrinkled.
And so a dry cleaner will use starch to make sure that this stands up.
So those are five key words for the dialogue today.
Let's listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back with Fluency Builder.
Hello, Mr. Henderson.
I can have it ready tomorrow afternoon, but this suit is also very stained.
We're back now.
Thank God.
What is this phrase?
This is a phrase we use in English to say that we're happy about something or that we're
relieved.
So maybe I'm nervous that the mail isn't going to come today.
Then the mail comes and I say, oh, thank God the mail came.
I'm happy.
I was hoping it would come.
So you're relieved.
Now, we are using the word there, God, but it doesn't really have a religious connotation
that much, right?
Not anymore.
It's usually just a phrase.
Now what about this acronym ASAP or ASAP?
So as soon as possible.
It's an acronym.
So the first letter comes from the word.
It means as soon as possible, very quickly, right away.
You always hear that in an office setting as well.
I need those papers ASAP.
I need those reports ASAP.
So you can say it either way, ASAP or ASAP and it means immediately.
And he said that he needed the suit ASAP and he said, I can have it ready by the end of
the week.
Okay, so that might not be fast enough for the client, for the person here who has the
stain, but the end of the week is a very, very useful phrase because it means that maybe
today's Monday or Tuesday, by Friday or Saturday, we'll have this ready for you.
Because we think of the end of the week as Friday, maybe Thursday, Friday.
So I can say the end of the week or the end of the day.
The end of the month.
Or the end of the year.
So the end of is usually the last time.
So thank goodness it's the end of the week.
I'm ready for my weekend.
So great phrases there as well.
Let's listen to the dialogue for the last time.
Thank God you are open.
So now dry cleaning, ironing.
Are you good at this or do you get a lot of your clothes dry cleaned?
I'm pretty good at this actually.
I don't like to wash clothes.
I get really bored with the washing machine, but I actually really like ironing.
I find it very relaxing.
I find it very frustrating.
Because I can't really iron well because I start on one side and I'm getting all the
lines out and then the other side gets wrinkled or lines appear where I don't want them to
appear.
It's very frustrating for me.
It is frustrating.
It takes some practice.
My suggestion is to use the spritzer.
In the iron, there's some water that can come out like that.
Well, if you spray the water, it makes the lines go out for longer.
Because if you iron over that, it's more permanent.
I've also seen some sprays sometimes that you can spray your clothes with some special
chemical that's not actually starch, but it helps remove the wrinkles quicker.
I don't use that.
I use water generally, but they're all available.
If you have any questions or comments, you can visit our comment section on EnglishPod.com
And my name is Catherine and today we have an upper intermediate level lesson all about
We are going to be talking about money but most importantly we need to start saving money.
We need to spend less.
So, in order to control spending today we're talking about budgeting.
So let's take a look at this very important word in today's vocabulary preview.
Alright, so as you mentioned, budgeting is, what is to budget?
To budget, that's the verb.
So budgeting is deciding how to spend your money, okay?
So that means that we prepare a plan for how to spend money.
Alright, so that can be a noun and a verb.
A budget is the plan on how you're going to spend money and to budget is to execute this
plan.
So, today we're budgeting a family's spending.
We're trying to control how much this family will spend in the future.
So why don't we listen to this dialogue for the first time.
Welcome Mr. and Mrs. Carnwell.
So, I understand that your family spending has skyrocketed and you want to start budgeting.
Yes, that's correct.
Frankly speaking, our household income is relatively high and we have never had any
money problems, but I think this is the main reason as to why our spending has gone out
of control.
We have two kids and with allowances paying their credit cards, ours, and not to mention
our mortgage and car payments.
With the recent economic downturn, my husband's business has suffered and now we need some
advice as how we can prepare a family budget.
Well, you have come to the right place.
First, what we need to do is determine your cash flow.
Knowing how much money is coming in will help us allocate spending to different categories
such as mortgage, education, groceries, etc.
Yes, that makes sense.
Secondly, I need you to bring all of your receipts for the last two to three months.
That way we can determine what your average expenditures are and see which category you
are spending money on the most.
Usually, your fixed costs are higher and we can't do much about that, but we can usually
trim your variable costs such as entertainment or clothing.
Great!
We will do that then.
Now how about we treat you to a nice dinner?
That's another thing.
If you really want to stop spending so much money, throw away at least half of your credit
cards.
So there were some interesting words and phrases in this dialogue related to budgeting and
a lot of financial terms here.
So let's get started now on Language Takeaway.
This first term is very important because it tells us what kind of a budget we're talking
We're not talking about a company here.
We're talking about a family.
And so in this case, we use the phrase household.
So what are we talking about?
Household income.
Alright, so income we know is the amount of money that comes in to maybe your wallet,
my income, my personal income.
That's how much money you earn.
So a household income is how much money the house earns.
So all the people that are living in this house, right?
So it could be a family.
It could be two married people who are married to each other.
So the idea is that it's not one person's income.
It's the household income.
Think of a house.
Alright, so it's the combined income of everyone that's living there or that's making money
that lives in this house.
So if Marco and I have a household, I earn $10,000 and he earns $10,000.
Our household income is $20,000.
So now we know what our household income is and in this case we have children and we give
our kids an allowance.
Okay so I had an allowance when I was a kid.
This is the amount of money I got from my parents every week.
So I get I think $10 a week and I could spend it on anything I wanted and I didn't have
to work because my parents gave the money to me.
And so an allowance is this money.
It's the money that mom and dad give to their children maybe every month or maybe every
week.
Now it's not only related to children, right?
Because maybe if you have a brother or maybe you're married and your wife is a housewife,
maybe you give her an allowance, right?
Or the opposite.
Maybe you're a house husband and you get an allowance from your wife.
You can have an allowance if you're anyone.
You can also have an allowance from your company if you go traveling.
So if you have a business trip, your company gives you a food allowance.
That's the amount of money you can spend on food.
And you don't have to work for it.
That's the best part.
Alright so after these allowances, they were talking about how the economic downturn has
affected their income and their spending.
Okay so down, you think this is a negative thing.
Downturn means when a situation gets worse or slows down.
And in this case, the economy is what got worse.
And you remember this from last year.
Things started to get very difficult for people who are in business.
And this has affected families.
And so we call this situation an economic downturn.
Now the opposite would be an economic boom.
A boom is when things are going well.
That means people are earning more money.
There are more jobs.
Now moving on, as they were talking about budgeting, they mentioned this very important
word, very technical, is to allocate money into different areas.
Allocate spending.
This is a verb.
To allocate.
That means to decide where the money will go.
Okay so as the mother in a family, I will allocate 10% of the money to the children's
allowances.
That's a lot.
50% to the mortgage.
20% to the car.
Car repairs.
So you're allocating your spending.
I'm deciding where to spend the money.
And well, talking about spending, we have this word, expenditures.
And so this is a really important word if you're in business as well because we consider
expenditures when we're talking about how much a company earns.
Expenditures are things that we spend money on.
So remember that word, expenditures.
Spend.
So an expenditure.
That's a noun and usually it's in the plural.
So we have many expenditures at my house.
Among them, we have the car, the rent, healthcare, things like that.
So really good phrases there.
Really good vocabulary items.
We've got some very fun phrases today, Marco, in Fluency Builder.
This first one is a very common phrase that we hear in songs and movies.
To skyrocket.
What is skyrocket?
Well, you think about a rocket, you know, that's a ship that goes to space.
To skyrocket means to go up really high, really fast.
The price of gas has skyrocketed.
So I remember when I was a kid, gas used to be 98 cents a gallon.
And in the 2000s, the price skyrocketed and it ended up being like $4 a gallon.
Yeah, it was really expensive.
So this is also, you can talk about sales have skyrocketed or the price of petroleum
has skyrocketed.
So it could be a good thing or a bad thing, depending on what you're talking about.
And now moving on, they said that their spending was out of control.
So this family doesn't seem to understand how to budget.
They spend on everything.
And so the accountant says that your spending is out of control.
That means that you're spending too much.
There's no order to the way that you're spending.
And we actually have a lesson, a previous lesson called out of control spending that
we also touched this topic of what we talk about out of control.
Something is out of control.
A person can be out of control.
Like a child.
This child is out of control.
He never stops screaming and hitting people.
And our last phrase for today, the accountant says, well, you've come to the right place.
This is him.
This is the accountant bragging.
He's saying, well, I can fix your problems.
I can help you.
You can use this in many different ways.
For example, I have a problem maybe with my TV and I say, Marco, oh my gosh, my TV doesn't
work.
Can you help?
And I can say, well, you've come to the right place.
I'm an expert in my TV.
Marco's an expert in electronics.
I'm an expert.
So, you've come to the right place.
It's a very common phrase, especially as you say when somebody's trying to brag and say,
well, I know how to fix your problems or I know what you need.
I'm good at this.
If you want to learn English, you've come to the right place.
So, let's listen to our dialogue for the last time.
money problems.
But I think this is the main reason as to why our spending has gone out of control.
We have two kids and with allowances, paying their credit cards, ours, and not to mention
Usually, your fixed costs are higher and we can't do much about that.
But we can usually trim your variable costs such as entertainment or clothing.
So now talking about allowances, you said you had an allowance when you were a kid.
Did you really have a $10 a week allowance?
No, I think it was like $8.
It started out at $6 or $5 a week and then I think the most I got was like $10 or $11.
So it was like almost about a dollar a day.
But usually the point was that, well, I started working when I was 15 because my parents thought
it was important for children to learn how money works.
But I was given that money because at the time it was enough money to go out one night.
So on Friday nights if I wanted to go out with my friends, I could go out to watch a
movie and get a slice of pizza and $10 was enough.
Now $10 doesn't even buy you a ticket to the movie.
But at the time it was more than enough.
So this is important I guess because different families have different ways of upbringing
their children and in many cases this doesn't happen.
If I want to go out to the movies on a Saturday, then my parents will give me $30.
And if I want to go out next weekend, they'll also give me money.
So it's interesting to see the contrast because obviously when I was a kid also I didn't really
get this opportunity of going out all the time.
And actually I had to work for it.
So if I wanted to go out on the weekend, I would get an allowance but also I would have
to wash the car, that was typical with my dad.
I had to wash the car.
Well, I think it's interesting because it shows that the parents want to teach their
children about budgeting.
Because if you only have $10, you really have to budget.
You have to decide how you will allocate that money even though it's not very much.
So in some ways it's good practice.
I think it's done us well.
We're not in debt.
So let us know how allowances work in your country or maybe did you have an allowance
when you were a kid?
A lot of people didn't have an allowance.
I know a lot of friends didn't get allowances.
So come to our website EnglishPod.com and if you have any other questions or doubts,
please leave them there as well.
We hope to hear from you.
We'll hit you up and let you know where to find us.
And my name is Katrin and today we have an elementary level lesson for you guys out there.
Today we are going to talk about an interesting topic, especially for women.
We are going to the nail salon.
Okay, so we're going to get our fingernails painted.
Alright, so let's take a look at vocabulary preview to find out what nail salon means.
Alright so if you go to a nail salon, it's a specific place where they paint your nails,
So it's a shop or a store where you can have your nails painted.
So they have special people to help you.
If you want to go get your hair cut, you would go to the hair salon.
So we have hair salon and nail salon.
In this case, at the nail salon, they can't cut your hair.
So why don't we listen to our dialogue for the first time.
Honey, I'll be right back.
Where are you going?
I told you already.
I'm going to get my nails done.
Again?
You just went last week.
You spend more time at the nail salon than you do here at home.
Honestly, why do you need a manicure every week?
Well, first of all, I like to pamper myself and my nails look great.
You should come with me.
I don't want to have nail polish or anything like that.
They don't only paint my nails.
The manicurist will remove my cuticles, file my nails and apply at least four coats of
nail polish.
Yeah, sounds like something I should definitely do.
So now we found some very interesting and specific words related to nails.
So why don't we look at those now on Language Takeaway.
All right, so this first word is an important word for every woman to know and I know a
lot of men who get this too.
It's called a manicure.
All right, manicure.
And what exactly is a manicure?
Well, a manicure is a service that you get at a nail salon.
And that means that the people at the nail salon will cut your nails and shape your nails.
That means if you want them to be pointy or boxy and then you get them painted and dried.
Okay, so they basically take care of your nails, of your fingernails, a manicure.
And so the important thing to remember here that a manicure is for your hands.
Right, so you can also get your toenails or your feet taken care of, right?
So that's different.
That's a pedicure because peda means foot.
So pedicure is for your feet and a manicure is for your hands.
And well, we talked about painting your nails and that paint has a specific name, right?
So you wouldn't use wall paint on your fingers, would you?
So you have to use a special paint and this is called nail polish.
Nail polish, okay.
So a polish is something that makes a surface or a thing shiny.
Okay, so nail polish is a paint that makes your nails very shiny.
And well, moving on, we talked about a manicure and there's a specific word for the person
that provides this service that takes care of your nails.
Okay, so the job at a nail salon is manicurist.
That's the person who paints your nails, okay?
And so you could say, I have a favorite manicurist.
Her name is Sally.
And well, a manicurist, they perform a manicure and well, apart from painting your nails,
they also push your cuticles or remove your cuticles like in the dialogue.
What are the cuticles?
Okay, cuticle is a very hard word.
This word describes the skin around your fingernail, okay?
So you have skin all over your body, but on your fingernail, you have special kind of
skin.
And so a manicurist will sometimes push or cut the dead skin, that's the cuticle, from
your finger.
And if you look at your fingernails now, you will see a little thin layer of skin on your
fingernail.
That's the cuticle.
And well, apart from removing your cuticles and painting your nails, they will also file
your nails.
And this is a verb, to file.
To file, okay.
So this is a word that's kind of like cut or trim, but a file is a more delicate process.
So it means that we kind of shave off very, very, very little at a time.
And so to file your nails means to make them shaped differently or to smooth them.
They're not cutting, clip, clip, clip.
It's a little bit less than that.
And now there's also a noun for this, a nail file.
And most women will usually have it.
It's a long piece of cardboard that has a paper that's kind of like sand on it, kind
of like sandpaper.
It doesn't feel good when you rub it with your hand.
But if you use it on your nails, it will little by little just take away little parts of your
nail.
Like that.
You usually see it, the many secretaries, you know, in TV shows, they're always filing
their nails.
Making them perfect.
So those are the words we have for language takeaway.
Why don't we take a look at our dialogue again and we'll be back in a little bit.
It sounds like something I should definitely do.
So now why don't we start with some phrases, some very good phrases that we found in this
This first phrase is really important when we talk about nails because it's the way that
we describe going to the nail salon.
So I can say, I'm going to get my nails done today.
Okay, so to get your nails done.
That means that you're going to get your nails cut, filed, painted, etc.
I'm going to get a manicure, but that's very, I don't know, serious.
So you could say, I'm going to get my nails done.
It's more spoken language.
Okay, so I'm going to get my nails done or you got your nails done.
And well, the woman was talking about why she likes to go get a manicure and she said
that she likes to pamper herself.
Okay, this is very common, especially when women are trying to talk about why they spend
money on hair and nails and clothes.
They say, I like to pamper myself.
To pamper means to treat very, very well.
So if you go get a manicure, it's kind of like pampering yourself or maybe going to
a spa.
Exactly, or getting a massage.
And so we could say also, don't pamper the dog.
He's very naughty.
So a synonym would be to spoil.
To spoil oneself, to pamper.
Indulge.
So, and well, she was talking about how they perform a manicure and she talked about four
coats of nail polish.
So a coat, we know that it's kind of like a jacket, right?
But in this case, it means a layer.
So you paint your nails one time.
You have color.
Maybe it doesn't look right.
It's very thin.
So you say, okay, I'm going to paint two coats and then you paint one more time and the color
gets darker and you paint one more time and the color gets very dark and very thick.
And so these are called coats.
That means layers of nail polish.
And that's a special word we use when we're talking about painting our nails.
So not only for nails, but if you're painting your house, maybe you need two or three coats
of paint.
If we have a red wall and we want to paint it white, we definitely need two, three, maybe
four coats of paint.
Otherwise, we'll still see the red.
Very interesting phrases.
Let's take a look at this dialogue for the very last time and we'll be back shortly.
I'm going to get my nails done again.
So, Catherine, are you a big fan of manicures?
Do you get it done often?
I didn't used to, but I really enjoy them now.
I think it's a nice way to relax on the weekends.
So every couple of weeks, I go to the nail salon and I get my nails done.
I think one of the words that we didn't talk about here, but it's very, I don't know, for
men it's kind of a strange smell, is nail polish remover.
The acetone, right?
It's a very strong chemical.
It is really disgusting.
Nail polish remover, you know, the word to remove means to take away.
And so when the nail polish, we want to change the color, we have to use this.
It's like water, but it smells really bad.
And so my boyfriend always gets angry when I use the nail polish remover because the
whole house starts to stink.
It's a very strong smell and you get kind of dizzy.
Yeah, it goes into your head.
Well, if you guys have any questions, any doubts, or any suggestions about this lesson
or any other lesson, please come to our website, EnglishPod.com and we'll see you guys there.
♪ Music Playing ♪
And my name is Catherine and today we're talking about something we talk about every
year.
Every year after Christmas or well during the Christmas holidays, we talk about New
Years, New Years Day and a very important topic, New Years Resolutions.
Alright, so we're not going to preview anything today.
It's all in the dialogue but when we come back, we'll be talking more about what you
hear and some of the great phrases you can use at the New Year.
Did you read this?
It says that the number one New Year resolution people make is to spend more time with friends
and family.
Why would that be funny?
Well think about it.
We are a society that is always on the go.
Not because we have to but because we want to.
We work hard and spend less time at home because we are trying to provide for our family with
goods and services that are usually unnecessary.
I don't agree but anyways, I think you should start thinking of a New Year's resolution
yourself.
What's the point?
We always make New Year's resolutions and by February, we will have forgotten about
It's pointless.
Well maybe then you should resolve to sticking to your goals and objectives.
Your gym bag is gathering dust and you still have brand new running shoes that are yet
to be jogged in.
Well I would go if you kept your promise of going to the gym with me every day.
Yeah, yeah, whatever.
Alright, great, we're back.
So this is very typical.
A New Year's resolution that you make but then people don't really stick to it, etc.
They don't?
Usually they don't.
Alright, but you're probably wondering what is a New Year's resolution so why don't
we take a look at this word and many more on Language Takeaway.
Okay, so New Year's resolution, let's break this phrase down.
The first phrase is New Year's.
So the New Year is January 1st in the West and it is celebrated on the 31st of December
at night when the clock changes to the New Year and a New Year's resolution, remember
that S there, is something that you want to do or to change in the New Year.
It's a fresh start.
Okay, so you pretty much, the verb that you use there is to resolve to do something.
So my New Year's resolution is to go to the gym every day.
It's like a promise to yourself.
Right, so and this is very common right among Americans.
They try and because it's a New Year, it's a fresh start so they want to start doing
something great.
Exactly, we can talk about this at the end but a lot of companies try to use this to
sell Americans stupid things so we'll get there in a minute.
But the two people in this dialogue are talking about the idea of spending more time with
friends and family.
And the other person says, well sometimes it's hard to do that because you have to provide
your family with goods and services.
This phrase goods and services is very common especially in economics and sociology.
And they go together, right?
So goods are tangible items, things that you buy, you know like food or you know clothes,
a TV, etc.
Stuff.
And services of course are other things like for example going to the doctor or the dentist
or any other service you get.
So service usually includes another person doing something for you.
But you might not actually get something physical like a TV if you pay for it.
So goods and services, it's included in this phrase always goods and services.
And well moving on as we mentioned with the New Year's resolution, we had that verb there,
to resolve.
So what does it mean if I want to resolve?
Okay well to resolve as we said is to decide or to promise yourself to do something.
So it's a decision that you don't want to change your mind about.
For example, I, this year, I've resolved to quit smoking.
That means I've made a decision for myself and I'm going to do it.
It's very strong.
And not to be confused with like to solve, right?
It has no real relation there, right?
No, resolve, to resolve to do something is to have a strong passion or interest in doing
something for yourself or changing an action.
And well our last word for language takeaway is brand new.
A brand new, something that's brand new.
Brand new, so buy a brand new car.
Come down to Captain's car lot.
So brand new is something we hear a lot in marketing.
It's also something that, well these words just go together very often.
And something is new, okay, you just bought it or it just came out.
But something that's brand new is really fresh, really new.
So brand new, a brand new car, a brand new watch, etc.
A brand new movie.
A brand new movie or brand new cereal.
Have you ever tried it?
So great phrases there.
So great words there.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back with three phrases.
Not because we have to, but because we want to.
I don't agree, but anyways, I think you should start thinking of a New Year's resolution
We always make New Year's resolutions and by February we will have forgotten about them.
So now let's take a look at these three phrases on Fluency Builder.
Okay, this first phrase is very common at gas stations and fast food chains.
We say on the go.
Alright, so he mentioned that we are a society that is always on the go.
It means we're always moving.
Exactly, so you're always going to work, going home from work, going to the store, going
to the school to get the kids.
Always moving, moving, moving.
So that kind of action, that kind of life is on the go.
You can also say eat on the go.
That means I eat while I'm going somewhere, while I'm doing something.
I don't sit down.
Okay, so on the go.
And well, talking about New Year's resolution and we said that well many people resolve
to do something but they don't really do it.
And we have a phrase that is used here, to stick to something.
Stick to your resolution.
To stick to it.
So you think of tape or glue, these things that help things stick together.
Okay, so in that sense it's kind of a way for you to describe continuing to do something
or not stopping, not quitting, not ending it.
And so I could say, remember how I said I wanted to quit smoking?
Well I'm really going to stick to this resolution because I think it's important.
That means I'm not going to give up.
So you're going to stay with it.
You're not going to give up.
Alright, so stick to something like for example our English learners, they'll stick to learning
And we could say as words of encouragement, hey stick to it.
Don't give up.
Keep with it.
And well finally they were discussing, more arguing about the gym membership and everything
and he mentioned that the gym bag is gathering dust.
Alright, this is a very nice phrase I think because it's very visual.
I like phrases where you can see what's happening.
So gathering means collecting.
That means that the dust in the air, it's building on this bag.
And something is gathering dust if we don't use it.
So we haven't gone to the gym because our bag is in the corner and it's just filled
with dust.
We could also say this about the computer.
Why should I buy you a new computer Marco if you never use the old one?
That's just sitting in the house gathering dust.
Okay, so it's another way of saying you never use it, you never do it, etc.
It's for an object though.
You can't say you are gathering dust.
No, well that would be a little weird.
You might be dead or something.
Alright, great phrases.
So why don't we listen to this dialogue one last time.
We always make New Year's resolutions, and by February we will have forgotten about them.
And well, as you mentioned, there are some interesting things about this dialogue, especially
when they talked about a society that is always on the go.
And you mentioned that well, sometimes you eat on the go.
And I've seen people in the United States that are actually eating while driving.
I'm guilty of doing that.
Yeah, you have no time to actually sit down for like 15 minutes and eat.
No, I remember being in high school at home and you just have so much stuff to do.
You have school, then after school there's like soccer practice, after that there's music
lessons and you never have time to eat so you have to grab food in the car and then
on the way home you're picking things up and you get home and you do your homework or whatever.
There's so much stuff to do and it doesn't stop.
It doesn't stop when you grow up.
It doesn't stop if you're an older person.
That's the way life is in America.
Wow, yeah, that's really interesting because I think many of our listeners that are in
other countries would find that a little bit peculiar if they actually went to the United
States and saw somebody in their car, you know, like having a hamburger while driving,
you know, and sipping on their soda.
Yeah, it's kind of sad.
Well, that's the thing.
You don't have much time.
But actually, this is based on true events, kind of, on the fact that many Americans do
want to spend more time at home with their friends, with their family because, as you
say, you're always so busy.
And I think it's a nice resolution to resolve to have dinner with your family once or twice
a week at home where you sit down and you talk about your lives.
It's nice because you get to share and you get to know each other better and, you know,
otherwise you're always just on the go in different places.
So we want to hear your comments and your opinions about this topic so why don't you
visit our website EnglishPod.com and we'll see you guys there.
Don't forget to share with us your New Year's resolutions.
Everyone's got one.
So I'm very excited to hear those.
And my name is Catherine and today we have a cold lesson.
It's the winter season and of course it gets cold in a lot of different places around the
world and so we're going to talk about heating.
Okay, this is very important but before we do get started, we have a very important word
to preview in Vocabulary Preview.
Alright, so we're going to preview the word freezing.
It is freezing today by the way so this is very appropriate.
Freezing means very, very, very cold.
Okay, it is freezing.
Okay, so it's very cold.
It's freezing today.
It's so cold in fact you can't have water outside because the water will become ice.
It will freeze.
So let's listen to our dialogue for the very first time.
It's freezing in here.
Can I turn up the heat?
Don't touch that thermostat.
You don't pay the bills around here.
Dad, are you serious?
What's the point of having central heating if we can't use it?
Look, I can see my breath.
Put on a sweater.
I'm not going to let you run up my heating bill just because it's a bit chilly.
Dad, I'm going to catch a cold.
When I was your age, my parents didn't have central heating like you do.
We had a furnace in the center of the living room and that was it.
We used it to cook, heat the house, and even dry our clothes.
We never caught a cold.
You should be grateful.
Alright, we're back and this is actually what a lot of dads are like I think around the
Yep, my dad definitely liked to keep the heat low in the house.
Alright, so we'll talk about that a little bit later but let's take a look at some four
words on Language Takeaway today.
Well, this first word is important for anyone who has a home with heating.
It's called a thermostat.
Alright, a thermostat.
What is a thermostat?
A thermostat is a dial or like a device on the wall that tells you how hot or how
cold the house is.
It's like a thermometer for your house.
Okay, so you can move the thermostat, the temperature to make the house warmer or colder,
Right, so if it says it's 20 degrees and I think that's too cold, I can turn the thermostat
up to 23 degrees.
Alright, and well very much related to a thermostat and what this device does is our next word,
central heating.
Right, so if you have central heating, you have a thermostat.
It's the way to control the heat and central heating means that you have one heater for
the whole house and so the air comes into all the different rooms.
So not many places in China have this but for example in the United States, in Canada,
it is very common.
Okay, so your house or your apartment building will have central heating and then you can
control how cold or warm the house is with thermostats.
Very good and well our next word is related to temperature and it's chilly.
Chilly, okay, so there's a big difference between chilly and freezing.
Freezing means very very very cold.
Chilly means a little cold.
Right, so it's a little cold.
It's a bit chilly.
Right, so it's a bit chilly today, I'm going to wear a hat.
Okay, if it's freezing, I'm going to wear a hat and mittens and a scarf and coat and
boots.
Right, so if it's a bit chilly, it's not very cold and well moving on, the dad mentioned
about him having a furnace when he was young.
That's right, the dad had a furnace in his house and the furnace is a way to heat your
house.
It's like a stove.
So yeah, just consider it like a big oven, right?
Maybe you've seen it in the old movies where you would have to throw firewood into the
furnace to make it heat up the house.
Exactly, and so this is very common in older homes and not very common in apartments.
Right, and well, that's all the words we have for language takeaway today.
Why don't we listen to this chilly dialogue again.
So now we have prepared for you three key phrases on Fluency Builder.
Okay, so this first phrase is related to thermostat.
So thermostat like we said is like a thermometer but we can control the temperature.
So if we want to make the temperature hotter, we turn up the thermostat.
So this is a phrasal verb, to turn up the heat.
You could say this about heat.
You could say this about noise too.
Can you turn up the radio?
Turn up the volume.
So it's to increase.
To increase, to make bigger or warmer or louder.
Alright and if we wanted to decrease the temperature in the thermostat, you would say...
Turn down.
Turn down the heat.
So it's too hot in here.
Can you please turn down the heat?
And our next phrase is, well the dad was talking about the bills and how expensive it is to
use the thermostat and he said, I'm not going to let you run up my heating bill.
Okay, so a bill is like you know, something that you pay.
It's money.
And so in this case, I don't want you to run up the bill.
That means to increase the amount of money I have to spend.
So maybe if you leave your television on all night, you're running up your electricity
bill.
And if you leave it on 10 hours a day, you run up the phone bill and your mother kills
Alright and well the daughter was complaining about her catching a cold.
To catch a cold.
Alright, so remember this.
A cold is when you have maybe a runny nose and a cough and a sore throat.
It usually happens when the weather changes.
But we don't get a cold.
You catch a cold.
And remember like in baseball, you throw and catch.
It's something that's fast.
Alright, so you catch a cold.
What about the flu?
Do you get the flu or catch the flu?
So you can't catch a flu but you can catch a cold.
Just remember this phrase.
I caught the cold.
To catch a cold or I caught a cold.
It's almost like if I have it, I can throw it to you Marco.
Achoo!
And you catch it.
Right, because it's in the air, the virus.
Yeah, it passes very quickly.
So an interesting dialogue.
Let's listen to it one last time.
We used it to cook, heat the house and even dry our clothes.
Alright, we're back and well you mentioned about the thermostat and your dad actually
controlling the heating at home.
Was this the case like this in this scenario?
Sometimes we would have to wear more clothes because we didn't want to run up the bill.
We had a special situation in my house because I'm from Chicago and it's very cold in the
winters in Chicago but we had a fireplace.
Even if it was very cold, we always had firewood and we could put on the fire in the fireplace
to keep warm so everyone would stay in the living room and read and listen to music and
just relax.
Now I heard that because when you're burning wood, it causes some pollution.
In some cities, it's banned to actually turn on or to have a fireplace.
But in Chicago, you can still do it.
And in most of the states, you can.
Although a lot of people in new houses, they don't have real fireplaces.
They have electric fireplaces.
So you can use a light switch to turn on your fire.
It's not a real fire.
It's just a glowing light.
It's very fancy.
Alright, well very good.
This is an interesting lesson especially because the winter season is coming up and well everyone
is cold.
So we hope you enjoyed it and if you have any questions, any doubts, you can come to
our website EnglishPod.com.
We hope to see you there.
Happy studies and stay warm.
And my name is Katrin and it's the Christmas season, Marco.
So that means we have a very festive lesson today.
Christmas is coming up and well, a tradition among many people around the world is to buy
a Christmas tree.
I remember when we used to do this in my family.
It was one of my favorite times of the year.
So we're going to explore this in today's lesson.
After we listen to the dialogue, we'll be back to talk about some of these interesting
words and phrases.
I'm home.
Everyone come here.
I bought a Christmas tree.
Look at this beautiful pine tree.
Wow, it's huge.
Are you sure it will fit in the living room?
I'll go get the Christmas lights.
Of course it will.
Help me put it in the living room.
I found the lights.
I got the Christmas ornaments.
We could also place these stockings next to the chimney.
Great idea.
While we decorate the tree, we can listen to some good old Christmas songs.
And as we mentioned, well, the entire dialogue is about a Christmas tree.
So why don't you explain what a Christmas tree is because many people maybe don't even
do or buy Christmas trees.
Okay, well, a Christmas tree is usually a green tree that we cut down and we put in
the house.
Okay, so it's not a real tree with the roots in the ground.
But sometimes it comes from a real tree outside.
And the tree is very small on the top and it goes out like a triangle.
Okay, so it's a special shape.
And we generally make it look very pretty with lights and ornaments and decorations.
And on Christmas, on the 25th or the 24th, it depends where you come from, we put lots
of presents underneath the Christmas tree.
Wow, it sounds amazing.
Well, yeah, and it looks very nice.
It does look really beautiful.
And it's just a really special part of Christmas.
And well, as you mentioned, sometimes the tree is just a fake plastic tree.
But many times it's a real tree and the type of tree that you use is a pine tree.
And so pine tree is a kind of tree that doesn't have leaves.
It has needles.
That means that they're long, very thin green pieces that are all over the tree.
And you can see these trees in most northern places like Scandinavia or in America, maybe
Illinois and Minnesota and Michigan and Vermont.
And they're very, as you say, very unique trees, but they also have a very special smell,
the smell of pine.
They do.
It's very nice.
It's such a nice smell that a lot of the things that we use in America to clean our houses
have a pine smell because it makes the house smell nice.
So a pine tree.
The dad brought a pine tree or a Christmas tree home and well, the wife was a little
bit worried if it will fit.
Okay, will it fit?
This is a very important question because a lot of pine trees are very, very tall.
So if a pine tree is three meters tall or four meters tall, will it fit is the question
we ask.
Is it too big or is it going to be stuck on the ceiling in the house?
And so we could ask this about anything.
I just bought a new TV.
Will it fit in the living room?
I'm very nervous.
I spent a lot of money.
And well, you were talking about the Christmas tree and how you put a lot of nice decorations
on it.
And so we say that we decorate the tree.
So the verb here, this is an action word, to decorate.
So every holiday season in my family, we take one day and we decorate the tree.
That means that we take very small, special ornaments and ribbons and lights and we put
them on the tree to make the tree look pretty.
You can also say decorate the house or to decorate the house for a party.
So this means to make something look special or pretty.
We've taken a look at very specific words related to Christmas trees and decorating
So why don't we listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back to continue with some more
language takeaway.
So why don't we take a look at three more words on Language Takeaway part two.
There's just so many words that are associated with Christmas and the Christmas season that
we have to look at them again here in Language Takeaway part two.
And the first one we've already mentioned, it goes together with the phrase to decorate
the tree.
Okay, so what do we decorate the tree with, Marco?
You mentioned ornaments.
Christmas ornaments.
So an ornament is a thing.
It's something that we use to make something else look prettier.
And so in this case, ornaments are sometimes round and red or green or gold.
We hang them on the tree.
And well, in this case, it's a Christmas ornament for the tree.
But an ornament can be anything, any nice piece of art or something that you can use
to decorate your house, right?
And in my family, ornaments aren't just those round circles or balls for Christmas.
Every family member has a special kind of ornament.
So my dad has Santa Claus ornaments and my mom has bunny rabbit ornaments and I have
angel ornaments.
So everybody has a special one.
Oh, that's really nice.
And well, apart from ornaments, there is also this tradition of hanging stockings.
Okay, so a stocking, you might have heard this word before in the sense of a clothing
item.
A stocking is like a sock.
A big sock.
And it also means the old stockings that women would wear, like tights.
But in this case, a stocking, a Christmas stocking is a very, very, very big sock that
we hang and on Christmas, we get to fill it with very special things like candy and toys.
Candy toys, very good.
So actually, you hang the stockings and the common place to do it in or to put them on
is on the chimney, right?
So there's a fireplace and usually above the fireplace, there's a shelf.
We call it a mantle.
And there's a place there to hang these and the place where all of the smoke from the
fire comes out is the chimney.
It's also the place where Santa Claus comes down.
So you have the fireplace where you put the wood, you have the mantle, that's the space
where you actually put the stockings on, and the tube that goes up and where the smoke
comes out of is called the chimney.
So you don't want to live there.
And then actually, the joke is that Santa Claus is definitely too fat to go down the
chimney.
But it's a special place in the Christmas story because that's what Santa Claus does.
So as you say, the Christmas season is important in America and people not only decorate Christmas
trees but also their house and even outside.
They put Christmas lights all over the house.
They put little statues of Santa Claus and reindeer.
It's a very, I don't know, sometimes lavish thing to do.
It's almost funny how much people like to spend on not just time but also money on decorating
their houses.
So where I come from, people decorate the outsides a lot.
You have Christmas lights on all parts of the house and then maybe all of the reindeer
in the front yard.
All of them.
There are like 12 of them or 9 of them.
I don't remember.
There's 12.
It was nice because when I lived there with my parents, we would go out and tour around
the neighborhood just to see other people's Christmas lights and decorations because as
we say, some of them can be very, very nice and they take a lot of time and effort into
decorating it.
It's really special.
At my house, we generally just decorated the inside but sometimes we did lights on the
outside.
There are some very funny movies that talk about this like National Lampoon's Christmas
Vacation.
There are some really funny scenes about putting Christmas lights on the house.
Well, that's all the time we have for today but we'll definitely post a link of this movie
that's actually very good.
It kind of depicts the traditional American in a funny way.
It's a very funny movie.
And if you have any questions, any other doubts or comments, you can come to EnglishPod.com
and we'll see you there.
So enjoy the Christmas season and until next time, guys.
Merry Christmas.
And my name is Kathryn and it is the holiday season.
That means we're talking about Christmas and Christmas shopping.
We've got a great lesson for you today.
So we're going to be looking for a Christmas gift and so let's listen to our dialogue for
the first time and we'll be back to explain some words.
Bill, Bill, you've got to help me.
Slow down or you're going to give yourself a heart attack.
Tomorrow is Christmas and I haven't bought my mom anything.
I'm such a bad son.
Let's go to the mall, window shop a little and see if there's anything she might like.
I don't know what to get her.
Last year I got her a ring that was two sizes too big and a pair of shoes five sizes too
small.
I suck at getting presents for people.
That's where you're making a big mistake.
You can't just guess people's likes or sizes, especially with clothes or jewelry.
On top of that, I think that you should get your mom something that shows how much you
love her.
At the same time, you should show her that you took the time and effort to look for something
that she would really like.
When it comes down to it, I can be pretty tacky.
Yeah, tell me about it.
Your mom is trying to learn Spanish, right?
Why don't you get her a gift certificate for this great website I saw called SpanishPod?
Now that's a great idea.
So now, why don't we take a look at Language Takeaway.
Okay, so there are a lot of interesting words in this dialogue.
Some of them have to do with Christmas and some of them have to do with shopping.
So this first one has to do with neither.
It's actually a phrase.
It's a medical term.
He talked about a heart attack.
Okay, so you know what a heart is, but a heart attack is when there's no more blood going
into your heart and your heart stops beating.
It's a very, very dangerous situation.
So the person actually said this because the other guy was like, Bill, Bill, you got to
help me.
He was all very excited.
He was like, whoa, whoa, slow down or you're going to give yourself a heart attack.
So it's not literal, right?
Yeah, it's not a real heart attack.
He's saying, calm down.
And well, he was very upset because he hadn't bought a gift and he said, I suck at getting
presents for people.
Well, suck is not a very polite word.
My mom used to get angry at me when I used it, but it's a way to say that I'm very, very
bad at doing something.
Okay, so I suck at playing tennis.
Alright, or you can say, I suck at math.
Alright, but again, this is not something you should use on a test or in an essay because
it's very spoken colloquial English.
And this other word is actually okay to use and when you're talking about presents or
you're talking about decorations, you say something is tacky.
Okay, well, if you call something tacky, this is an adjective, so something is tacky, it's
really a matter of opinion.
Okay, so I think this is tacky, but you don't.
Maybe that's a problem.
So let me give you an example of tacky.
I think that clothing with lots of bows and glitter and shiny things are very tacky.
Okay, so it's something that you don't really like.
So you think that is a little bit strange.
So as you say, it's an opinion because you think that clothes with bows and teddy bears
on it is tacky.
Well, somebody else can think, no, it's cute, it's nice.
And you can also describe things that people do as being tacky.
So for example, he gave me a present but he left the price on it.
Oh, that is so tacky.
Right, that is tacky.
Alright, so the word is tacky.
And moving on, we talked about a gift certificate.
You should get your mom a gift certificate.
Well, a gift certificate is a very popular form of gift giving now.
You know what a gift is, but a certificate is a piece of paper.
Okay, so you could have a birth certificate, for example, it says when you were born, where
you were born.
But in this case, a gift certificate is a piece of paper that you give someone to say,
you have this much money to spend at this store.
So I could give my mom a gift certificate for a bookstore for $50 and she can go with
this piece of paper and spend $50 for free because I already paid.
So it's kind of a very popular thing to do because sometimes, as in the dialogue, you
don't know the person's size or you don't know if they like this color.
So you're just like, look, here's a gift certificate for $100, go to the store that I know you
really like and get yourself whatever you want, something nice.
But it's less tacky than giving that person cash, right?
Cash is considered a tacky gift.
I'm not really sure why, it just is.
It's a social custom, but very popular right now are these gift certificates or even gift
They look like credit cards.
All right, so why don't we listen to our dialogue again and we'll return shortly to take a look
at Fluency Builder.
Bill Bill you gotta help me.
Tomorrow's Christmas and I haven't bought my mom anything.
So now why don't we take a look at four key phrases on Fluency Builder.
Okay, I like this first phrase.
Sometimes I have to use it about other people.
Sometimes people use it on me.
You say, take it easy.
Hey, take it easy.
Yeah, this is a way to say, hey, be calm.
Be calm.
So there's no, you can't really translate it, right?
Take what easy?
You can't, but this is, there are two main contexts, okay?
There are two situations where this is really popular.
One is this, oh my God, Marco.
Oh my God, I'm freaking out.
I really need your help on this and I really need you to just really be involved.
All right, relax.
All right, so that's someone who's upset and you're telling them to calm down.
The second situation is when you're saying goodbye to someone.
This is a very kind of, again, spoken language, very comfortable way of saying, hey, see you
So it's like, all right, bye.
Yeah, take it easy.
Have a good one.
Have a good one is another good phrase.
That means, that means, yeah.
Take life easy.
Don't rush.
Enjoy your life.
So if you try this with your English speaking friends, you're saying goodbye, you say,
hey, take it easy.
Yeah, bye.
It's a nice one.
And her second phrase is actually, it's interesting because when he talked about the ring that
he got for her mom that was two sizes too big and a pair of shoes five sizes too small.
So the construction there, two sizes too big, five sizes too small.
This is a very important construction and it doesn't quite make sense when you hear
So that's what we're going to explain right now.
Let me try to explain this using an example.
If I have a size seven shoe and my brother gives me a Christmas present of size nine
shoes, I say, Peter, these shoes are two sizes too big.
That's the number two, two sizes, T-O-O, too big.
That means they're too big for me by two sizes.
Because the difference between seven and nine is two.
And if I have a size five shoe, I say, Peter, these shoes are two sizes too small.
That means that five is two less than seven.
So this is a very popular construction.
So you're saying specifically how much bigger or how much smaller the shoes are in the case
with the ring or shoes or anything that has a size.
But the funny thing is you can also exaggerate.
You could say, oh, this sweater is so ugly.
It's 10 sizes too big for me.
It's not really 10 sizes.
So, but you can use this construction, right?
Using one size too big, etc.
Even when you're buying something to the store, to the lady in the store, you can say, oh,
I think the shoe is two sizes too big.
Can you give me a smaller pair?
And our third phrase for today, when the person said, yeah, you're right.
So we looked at tacky, but what does he mean when it comes down to it?
Well, this it is very confusing sometimes when we talk about phrases in English, but
when it comes down to it as a way to say in reality or actually, or the truth is yes.
So it's a way to say something is truthful.
So I can say when it comes down to it, Catherine is a good friend.
So when times are tough or in the end, or actually maybe you have your small faults,
but you are a good friend.
And when it comes down to it, Marco is a really hard worker.
So sometimes he likes to play video games, but when it's a really important, he will
work really hard.
So very good uses of this phrase and you can use it in many different contexts.
And for our fourth phrase, when the person said, yeah, tell me about it.
Tell me about what?
Well, this is a really very popular phrase.
You hear this all the time and it's, it's a way to say, yeah, I agree.
I understand.
So this is, this is a phrase that means agreement.
So I can say, God, I really hate winter because when I leave work, it's always really dark.
It's always dark and it makes me feel lazy.
And so Marco is agreeing.
He says, I don't like it either.
So this is a very, very spoken way, spoken language way of agreeing with someone.
So you say, yeah, tell me about it.
It's very natural.
It's a very natural way of agreeing with someone.
Why don't we take a look at our dialogue for the last time and we'll be back to talk a
Bill, Bill, you gotta help me.
So now that the Christmas.
So as we said, gift certificates are a good idea, but what else do you like to give as
Christmas presents?
Personally, I like things that people really think about and spend their time doing or
making.
So I like, for example, my mom is a beautiful quilter.
She makes these big blankets and quilts them.
And sometimes she even quilts names of people and stuff.
And so those are really wonderful gifts because the person thinks about you and who you are
and what you want.
And so I like to be able to give gifts like that, but I'm not necessarily that creative.
So I think it's nice to give gifts like tickets to a music show or things like that where
you know the person will go and have a good time and enjoy themselves.
Yeah, I think that's really important because sometimes people just give gifts because you
have to.
Yeah, like stuff.
And you're like, oh, great.
A tie.
It's kind of impersonal.
At the same time, if your dad or your boyfriend or somebody loves ties and has 50 of them
and you get them another one that's really interesting or unique, then great.
But it is good to take the time to get somebody something they really like or they would really
use or enjoy.
So what kind of gifts do you plan to give this holiday season?
Do you celebrate Christmas?
Let us know on our website EnglishPod.com.
Cheers
And it's the holiday season so that means more Christmas songs for you guys.
And today we're going to be taking a look at a very famous song, very relaxed but very
beautiful song called Silent Night.
Yeah, this is one of those songs that you hear everywhere but unlike Jingle Bells which
is like jingle bells, jingle bells, not, you know, very cheery and uplifting and shopping
This is more, as Marco said, calm, peaceful, almost church music.
So we're going to find out what the words mean in this very classic song.
Right, it's classic and very religious because it has a connotation towards the Catholic
religion.
So why don't we listen to the song and then we'll be back to explain it.
Silent night, holy night, all is calm, all is bright.
Round yon virgin, mother and child, holy infant so tender and mild.
Sleep in heavenly peace.
So now let's take a look at this song line by line.
So we're not going to do the standard format of picking out words.
We're going to do it line by line to kind of get a good feel for this dialogue.
So first of all some background.
Okay so the 24th, the evening, Mary and Joseph are looking for a place to stay.
Mary, the virgin mother of God, is going to give birth to a baby.
And they need a place to stay so finally they find a place.
It's not a hotel, it's not a house.
It's like an inn.
Yeah, well it's actually the stables for the inn, right?
Yeah, the stables for the inn, yeah.
And so what the song is celebrating is what happens afterwards, after the baby Jesus is
born.
So that's where we are.
Alright, so the first line says silent night, holy night.
As you know it's holy, that means it's religiously special, it's important.
Okay, all is calm, all is bright.
So we talk about bright light sometimes.
Something is bright if it gives a lot of light off.
And well the next line is very interesting because it says round yon virgin mother and
child.
Now you see this first two words there, round yon.
What is round yon?
So round comes from around.
Yon means over there.
So around over there, so over there we've got two people.
Over there we've got the virgin mother and her child.
Okay so the virgin mother is Mary, right?
And the child would be Jesus.
And it says holy infant, so tender and mild.
Okay so what is an infant?
An infant is a baby, some baby that's just been born.
So we can say that infants are very, very delicate.
You have to be very careful when you hold an infant.
But in this case a holy infant is Jesus, he's special for religious reasons.
And when they say that he's tender and mild, what does he mean by that?
Well you talk about tender things when you're talking about things that are soft, delicate,
gentle or sweet.
And something that is mild or someone that is mild is very quiet and calm and gentle.
So not making much noise.
So the baby is very sweet, very tender and wasn't crying or making a big fuss.
And then we have sleep in heavenly peace, sleep in heavenly peace.
Well the baby's quiet because the baby's sleeping.
So you're saying sleep in heavenly peace, that means may the peace of heaven, because
heaven is a very peaceful place, the most peaceful place, may that peace be with you
when you're sleeping.
And moving on we have silent night, holy night again.
But then they say shepherds quake at the sight.
So what is this?
Shepherds we know that these are people that take care of sheep.
That's right, they make the sheep move from one place to another.
And it says they quake at the sight.
So they quake at the sight of what?
Well quake, we often say quiver in one's boots.
So to quake means to shake when you're nervous.
So you know when you're going to make a speech in front of many, many, many people, your
hands start to shake, that's called quaking.
So to quake.
So shepherds quake, they're nervous at the sight, well the sight is the noun for seeing
The sight of Jesus.
Of the baby.
Okay, okay, okay, okay.
Glories stream from heaven afar.
So glories stream from heaven afar.
Okay, the verb here, the action word is to stream.
To stream.
Okay, that means to come down.
Okay, so to come down in kind of big amounts.
So we have glory, glory, so happiness and joy and glory and good things coming down
from the heavens.
So lots of positive, good things coming down from heaven.
And where is heaven?
Afar.
So the key part of this is the word far.
It's far away, right?
Afar is an old word we use to describe something that's far away.
So the heavens afar, the heavens that are far away are giving us all of this joy and
happiness.
And then the song says heavenly hosts sing hallelujah.
So heavenly hosts, those are bodies or people or spirits in the sky.
Like angels.
Angels.
They're singing hallelujah.
So hallelujah is a word that we often use in the Christian religion that comes from
Greek actually.
So hallelujah is a Greek word and it means celebrate, joy, amen.
Okay, hallelujah.
It's something you're happy about.
Hallelujah.
And then they say Christ, the savior is born.
Now we have this, the savior.
Who is a savior?
What is a savior?
It's a very good question.
A savior is a word we only really, well, we don't hear that often, but you've heard the
word to save before.
So for example, I fell into the water and Marco jumped in and saved me.
So I would be a savior?
Marco is my savior.
He saved me.
But in this case, savior refers to the Bible and the things that Jesus did later.
So we say in Christianity, he saved people, the humankind.
So he is the savior.
Christ the savior.
And then our next verse, it says, silent night, holy night, son of God loves pure light, radiant
beams from thy holy face.
So we have radiant beams and then we have this word thy.
So these beams is like a beam of light, right?
It's like a line of light, but you know how light is clear.
So a beam of light is something that comes down in a straight line.
You can see it.
So for example, when I turn on a flashlight and there's a line of light, that's a beam.
And radiant means it's very bright.
It's very clear.
Clear and it's strong and it's coming out from that one place.
And what about this word thy?
It's very popular, like old English, right?
It's an old English form of saying you.
So in the olden days in English, we had different ways of saying the word you.
And so thy is one of those words and you hear this very often.
And so in this sentence, we're saying radiant beams from thy holy face.
We're now starting to talk to Jesus because we're referring to him.
You radiant beams, light is coming out of your face.
Your holy face.
Because you're such a holy.
I think you can probably see this thy and thou in Shakespeare, for example, right?
Shakespeare, the Bible, prayers, and all sorts of old books and poetry.
And then we say with the dawn of redeeming grace.
So what is to redeem?
To redeem is to find value in something that didn't have value before.
So maybe I have a ticket for some, okay, I won a small lottery ticket, $5.
I go to the store to redeem my money.
The paper is worthless, but it's worth something when I redeem it.
So Christ the Redeemer, when he saves people, he redeems them.
He gives them value again.
So it's a very profound song, right?
And it talks about, as we say, about Jesus, about angels, and it's very, very religious.
So it's a great song and it's, well, it's a very popular song.
And well, even if you don't share the religious connotation that the song has, it still is
very popular in North America and many parts of the world.
So why don't we have a listen to this song one last time?
So when I was a little girl at school, we had to sing this in German.
So I know that there are some other countries that have the same song with different words.
So it's the same rhythm and everything, but just in German.
And is it pretty much the same idea, the same words?
Yeah, almost exactly the same, just in a translated form.
Maybe it came from German, I don't know.
Because it seems to be pretty old, right?
But it is a very common song during Christmas.
And even many times, Christmas carolers will go around in the neighborhood and sing these
songs in different places, right?
And it's a really beautiful song, one of my favorites.
And I'm not a religious person, so I don't really like it for the religious perspective
that it gives.
But I do think that it's just one of those beautiful classic songs that makes the season
very warm and special.
The music is nice in this song.
Alright, so an interesting song and I'm sure we're going to have a lot of questions and
comments about it.
So we expect to see you guys on our website EnglishPod.com and we'll see you guys there.
Happy holidays and enjoy.
Bye guys.
Enjoy Christmas, sing along with us.
And my name is Catherine and it's the holiday season.
It's almost Christmas and so we are bringing you one of the most typical Christmas songs
or Christmas carols I guess in all over the world probably.
That's right and I've heard it in many different languages, even Chinese.
Yeah, even Chinese.
Ding dong dang.
Okay, I'll have to ask.
Yeah, you have to ask.
But yeah, we're talking about Jingle Bells today.
So the famous song Jingle Bells, you'll hear it everywhere, especially during the Christmas
season, only during the Christmas season.
And so let's listen to the song.
The song is pretty long.
It has like a couple of different verses.
But we've taken the main one, the first one, and the chorus, which are like the most famous
ones.
This is going to be stuck in my head all day, Marco.
It's kind of catchy though.
How can you not get into the spirit with this song?
Well, as you said, a carol, a Christmas carol is a song and they're meant to be catchy.
You get them in your head and they stay there forever.
I think it's also because every mall or shopping center you go to, they're playing these songs.
So they just kind of get stuck in your head.
In the background all the time.
It makes you want to shop more.
Or kill someone.
Alright, so there were probably a couple of different words that you didn't understand
So we're going to go through the whole song little by little and we'll explain it.
So starting out with the first line, it says, dashing through the snow.
Well, okay.
This is interesting because in sports, there's an event called a 100 meter dash.
Okay, so a dash is a very quick run.
Very fast, right?
So dashing through the snow is you're kind of running or going through the snow very
quickly.
Right, we don't know who is running through the snow but we know something or someone
is going very quickly through the snow.
And in the second line it says, in a one horse open sleigh.
Okay, so now we know who's dashing through the snow.
It's a horse.
It's a horse and you're in a sleigh.
Okay, so an open sleigh means that there's no roof.
So you're sitting under the stars and there's a horse pulling your sleigh through the snow.
Okay, so a sleigh is kind of like a vehicle for the snow, right?
There's no wheels.
Okay, because it's hard to drive in snow and so this is an old kind of vehicle that has
maybe wood or metal underneath to make it slide.
To make it slide, very good.
Alright and then we have this strange word here.
It's o apostrophe er, or, or the field we go.
Or the field we go.
Well, this is very, very common in poetry.
So this is a way to make the word over shorter because over, you can hear it, two syllables,
But sometimes we only want one.
So we say or.
Okay, or the fields we go.
Laughing all the way.
Bells on bobtails ring.
Now what are bobtails?
What are these bells on bobtails?
Okay, well bobtails are the tails of certain animals, okay?
So we could say we have a bunny rabbit with a bobtail.
That means the tail sticks up.
But it's also maybe reindeer have bobtails because their tails stick up.
You can see them.
Okay, so I guess in this case, because it's Christmas, these animals like reindeer and
rabbits have little bells on them.
And according to the next line, making spirits bright, right?
So you're making people happy.
Spirit is your, your attitude or your soul.
And in this case, you're being made happy.
You're happy because it's Christmas.
You're outside.
And well, he says, what fun it is to laugh and sing a slaying song tonight.
Now slaying, we know that slay is this vehicle to go through the snow.
But a slaying song, I guess is.
Is the song we sing when we're in a slay.
So this isn't a real word, but this is something that makes the song kind of makes you think
that these people are just singing a special song for being in a slay.
Let's go to the chorus, jingle bells, jingle bells.
So this word jingle, it's a verb, right?
To jingle, we can do it with your keys too.
To jingle is to make noise when metal is touching metal.
So we have bells and they ding ding ding ding ding.
They hit each other.
I got some keys here.
I'll show you what jingling is.
So we go like this.
Oh, jingle.
To jingle your keys, right?
So you can use it with keys, with bells.
Can you use it with anything else?
Anything that makes it sound like that?
Chimes, jingle.
Okay, chimes, jingle.
So jingle all the way.
Oh, what fun it is to ride again in a one horse open sleigh.
Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle all the way.
So all the way, maybe we're going someplace.
All the way, wherever you're going, right?
Home or to dinner.
And oh, what fun it is to ride in a one horse open sleigh.
So the chorus is not very hard and neither is the first verse, but you know, sometimes
the song is pretty fast, so sometimes you don't really understand what they're saying.
Personally, I did not know the lyrics of Jingle Bells until we started doing this podcast.
Well, because when we sing it, we mumble.
You know, you can't hear all the words.
So jingle bells, jingle bells, you don't know the words, but dashing through the snow.
Sometimes you have to just think of it very clearly.
So that's all the words we have for this podcast.
It's a very good Christmas carol.
It's very catchy and I don't know how old it is.
I've heard it since I was small.
Well probably old enough to come from a time when there weren't cars because there was
sleigh.
And when they used ore, because I don't see people use ore anymore.
No, I think it's mostly just songs and poems.
You see it a lot in the 19th century.
But it is interesting also, I guess, the relationship between the sleighs and snow.
Christmas is always related to this, even though in some places you don't have snow
during Christmas.
That's right, but it does.
I mean, we're here in Shanghai and we can hear people singing this song, so.
And there's no snow.
So I think it's just a way to think about the season of Christmas and the attitude of
people when it's Christmas time.
So I hope you enjoyed our lesson.
If you have any questions about this Christmas carol, you can let us know on EnglishPod.com.
And we'll also post the other verses, the less known verses of Jingle Bells because
it's actually a pretty long song.
Very long and I don't know any of the other verses to be honest with you.
We'll post the first one and the chorus because it's the most popular one.
So we'll see you guys there and Merry Christmas!
Merry Christmas!
My name is Catherine and we are your English language guides here at EnglishPod.
That's right and today we're going to be taking you to Christmas morning.
It's Christmas Day.
Oh, one of the best times of the year.
You wake up, you smell the good smell of delicious eggs and bacon and there's presents.
Yeah, I guess that's when you're a kid though.
I guess when you're an adult, do you really get excited when you wake up for Christmas?
Hell yeah.
Sure do.
Yeah, I sure do.
I love Christmas morning even as an adult.
Especially I think because of the special breakfast you get like pancakes, scrambled
But anyways, we're going to be taking a look at a situation here where a kid is opening
Christmas presents and we're preparing a meal for Christmas because that day people are
going to come over.
So let's listen to this dialogue for the first time.
Dad, dad, dad, wake up.
It's Christmas.
Timmy, it's too early for this.
Look, it's six in the morning.
Go back to bed.
Santa already came and left all our presents.
Can we go open them, please, please?
Of course we can, honey.
Bill, come on, get dressed.
Not like Santa brought me any gifts.
Bill, honestly, you can be such a grouch sometimes.
Look at all these presents under the Christmas tree.
All right, Timmy, knock yourself out.
We should get ready and head to the market to buy everything for Christmas dinner tonight.
It's the first time we're hosting Christmas dinner at our house, so everything has to
be perfect.
I got the list right here.
Ham, turkey, mashed potatoes, ingredients for the gravy, and of course, yams.
My dad offered to bring the eggnog, so we should be set.
So there were a couple of different and interesting words there, so let's take a look at them
Okay, this first word is not a very happy word.
It's a word that we try not to use too much around the Christmas season, but sometimes
you're just tired of people because the holidays is all about people and doing stuff.
Someone who is not being very happy, someone who's a little bit grumpy is called a grouch.
Okay, so a person that's not very happy, not very friendly is a grouch.
I don't want to open presents.
This is stupid.
Okay, that's a grouch.
Okay, so a person is a grouch, or you can act like a grouch, or be a grouch.
Don't be a grouch!
And, well, they were talking about heading to the market to buy something for dinner,
so to head to.
Okay, to head to is a way to say to go towards some place or to go somewhere.
All right, so if I'm driving my car and you ask me where I'm going, I'm saying,
oh, I'm heading to the bank.
Right, so to head to means to be on your way somewhere, I'm going somewhere.
It's a way to say that you're in the process of going.
You can't say, next year I will head to Alaska.
It doesn't make as much sense.
You usually say, I'm heading to the bank, or let's head to the market.
And well, they were talking about heading to the market because they are hosting Christmas
dinner, so to host.
To host is a very important holiday term.
It's a verb, you do it, and it means that you are the person who has the special dinner
and your friends and family, they come to your house.
Okay, so we could say, this Christmas, I'm hosting the dinner at my house.
So, I want everyone to come to my house and eat.
All right, and it can also be a noun, right?
You can say, I am a host.
I'm the host of this dinner.
Right, and it doesn't have to be holidays either.
You could say, hey, Marco, how about you host a dinner next week?
I'll come.
I'll bring wine.
All right, so to host a dinner or to host a party, etc.
And our fourth word for language takeaway is probably the most popular drink during
the Christmas season, eggnog.
Okay, it sounds kind of disgusting.
Yeah, a drink with egg.
But it's a very popular creamy eggy drink.
It's very thick and it's cream colored.
And normally, you add a little bit of rum.
Okay, so it's alcoholic.
And you drink it warm and it's kind of just a thick, warm alcoholic beverage that's very
very popular and my dad loves it.
During Christmas, right?
During Christmas.
You don't have it like any other day.
No, you wouldn't want to.
It's too heavy.
But it's very very popular like the days before Christmas and on Christmas.
Okay, so eggnog.
So I think we should take a look at the dialogue again and we'll be back soon with Fluency
Dad, dad, dad.
Wake up.
Timmy, Timmy, Timmy.
Timmy, Timmy.
As a child William used to be such a spendthrift
on Christmas Sunflowers.
He used to rub centrally into Santa's shirt, nothing more.
Now the trollis all of a sudden complaining about the Christmas Sunflowers getting cooked
up in the sun.
We used to need New Year's sunflowers but there weren't any Favorites and Timmy was
praying for his brother to cook up a perfect one.
And if you lied to Santa then you must have failed.
People go crazy to distribute gifts.
Yeah, well now each has a Santa and a board and you remember you're Stu for now and suddenly
Alright, Timmy, knock yourself out.
I've got the list right here.
Alright, we're back, so now let's take a look at a couple of phrases on Fluency Builder.
Okay, so this first phrase is a phrase that I often heard as a child because I never wanted
to go to sleep.
So I'd go downstairs and my parents would say, Catherine, go back to bed.
Okay, go back to bed.
So this is just a very common colloquial spoken way of saying, go back to sleep.
Go to sleep.
Be awake.
So you can say, go to sleep, or you can say, go to bed, or if somebody has gotten out of
bed, you say, go back to bed.
Exactly, and so parents often use this with their kids because they want their kids to
sleep.
You can also say it about someone who's up at night worrying, and you say, come on, go
back to bed.
Okay, and then we also saw this phrase, knock yourself out.
Knock yourself out.
Well, I'm not really sure where this phrase comes from.
I mean, to knock is like to knock on a door, right?
But to knock yourself out, if I think about it, it probably means that you hit yourself
in the head and you fall over.
But the real meaning of this is, go have fun.
Have as much fun as you can have.
Right, have as much fun as you want.
Go knock yourself out.
So the parent is saying, hey, Timmy, go have as much fun as you want.
Just go do it.
Enjoy yourself.
Yeah, like go open all these presents.
Have all the fun you want.
Alright, and then we saw another phrase when they finished talking about dinner and all
the things they have to buy.
They said, we should be set.
We should be set or we are set.
Well, this is funny because she says, well, my dad's going to bring the eggnog, so we
should be set, which means we should have everything we need.
So we don't need anything else.
We're ready.
Everything is good.
So we can say, we are set.
I'm set.
It's a way to say, are you ready?
Are you prepared?
Do you have everything you need?
So I often use this when I'm going on a trip.
Are you set?
Did you pack everything?
Are you all set?
I finished packing.
I'm all set.
I'm ready to go.
All set and ready to go.
Okay, so some interesting phrases there as well.
Let's look at our dialogue for the last time.
Can we go open them, please?
Please?
As you mentioned, Christmas morning is great.
You open presents and breakfast.
It's a time to be together with your parents, your family, but as in this case, you can
be a little bit of a grouch because you're just kind of tired because you had Thanksgiving
and November and then Christmas, and now you're having New Year's, so you're kind of just
like, ugh.
The holiday season can be exhausting, and I know a lot of families have a special dinner
on the 24th.
That's Christmas Eve, and then by the time it's Christmas Day, the 25th, you're exhausted,
you didn't get any sleep, you might have had too much to drink last night, and so it can
be very tiring.
Also, because the kids always get up way too early, like 6 o'clock.
Right, to open their presents, right?
And then they'll be playing with their toys all day, and you'll have a headache.
But it's a great season to spend time with the family, and we want to know how you spend
your Christmas Eve and your Christmas morning, so why don't you come to our website EnglishPod.com
and leave your questions and comments there as well.
We're looking forward to hearing from you.
Again, happy holiday season, and until next time.
энергetic guitar music
My name is Catherine and today we have another holiday lesson for you guys.
It's an intermediate level lesson, but it's not about Christmas and it's not about New
Year's.
So what's this holiday, Marco?
It's like after Christmas, but before New Year's.
Okay, so let's look at this holiday in today's vocabulary preview.
All right, so as you noticed in the title, this is called Boxing Day.
So like fighting boxing or...
Kind of like boxes, right?
It's more related to boxes.
So this is a holiday that we don't actually celebrate in America.
It's celebrated in what are called Commonwealth countries.
That means countries that used to be a part of Great Britain or that are a part of Great
Britain.
So England, Scotland, Canada, Australia.
And this is a day where, well, it's considered a holiday because it's a bank holiday.
That means all the banks close.
No one's at work.
It's the day after Christmas.
So it's December 26th and it's traditionally a day when you give money or gifts to the
poor.
And so this is more or less what we're going to be talking about, but more modern, right?
Before it was like that, but now it's kind of become this shopping thing, right?
It has.
It's a day when everyone goes to the sales after Christmas to return things or to buy
new things.
So we're going to hear about this right away in today's dialogue.
And when we come back, we'll be talking about some of the phrases and words that you've
heard.
What do you think of this one?
Eh, so-so.
And this one?
Too flashy?
Nah, not too flashy.
Oh, and this sweater from my aunt.
Isn't it hideous?
I guess.
Are you even listening?
I'm trying to have a conversation with you.
And I'm trying to watch the game, but you're yapping on about your new clothes.
Well I have to decide which gifts to keep and which to exchange for better ones when
I go to the Boxing Day sales this afternoon.
Well could you do me the favor of making this quick?
It's the third quarter and you've been blabbering on since the first.
Oh, your precious game.
You watch the same game every year and each year your beloved hometown team loses by at
least three goals.
Oh, no you didn't.
You didn't just insult the Salisbury Seals, did you?
Why don't you just go return all those stupid clothes and not come back until the sales
are over?
I might just.
Enjoy your stupid game.
And Merry Christmas.
Alright, great, so we're back and interesting, the couple fighting right after Christmas.
Well I think it's very common to hear fights around the holidays.
People are very stressed out.
And tired of dealing with family and presents and all the stress, right?
But we'll talk about that a little bit later on.
Right now why don't we take a look at four key words in language takeaway.
Okay, these first two words are words that the wife uses in talking about some of these
clothes that she got as presents.
So she says, well she asks her husband, is this too flashy?
Flashy.
Alright, so you know flash, like the camera flash, right?
This big light.
Now flashy when you're talking about clothes or an object, it's too noticeable, right?
It's too noticeable, too bright, too loud.
So for example, a black shirt is not flashy.
But an orange shirt.
An orange shirt with buttons and bells and rhinestones, diamonds, that's flashy.
She can also mean something that is supposed to look expensive.
Okay, so that sweater was a little bit flashy according to her.
But also she talked about another sweater being hideous.
So hideous is an ugly word and it means ugly.
Ugly.
Okay, so I could say this sweater is hideous.
That means it's not only ugly, it's really ugly.
Okay, it's more than ugly.
Alright, a hideous sweater.
And moving on, the guy now was a little bit irritated and stressed out and he said, you
keep yapping on about your new clothes.
So what is this yapping on?
Well, yap is a sound like yap, yap, yap, yap, yap, yap, yap, yap.
So yapping, to yap on about means to continue to talk and talk and talk about something.
Because he's watching the football game on TV and she's talking and talking and talking
and he's annoyed.
So this is rude to say, stop yapping about this or stop yapping on about your game.
It's very rude.
It means just stop talking.
And well, then he mentioned another phrase that is pretty much the same thing, right?
Blabbering on.
To blabber, to blabber on about means to talk about something but to not really make sense.
Okay, so it's just worthless talk.
So you're just talking to talk.
You're not really saying anything interesting.
And so sometimes we make fun of people who blabber on about things because they're not
important to us or they sound stupid.
Okay, so four key words there.
Blabbering on, yapping on.
Why don't we listen to them again in the dialogue?
Oh, and this sweater from my aunt, isn't it hideous?
Well, I have to decide which gifts to keep and which to exchange for better ones when
Well, could you do me the favor of making this quick?
So now we have a couple of different phrases that we want to look at on Fluency Builder.
Okay, so this first phrase is very closely related to the days after Christmas, especially
here on Boxing Day.
We've got someone who's talking about going to the stores, to the sales to exchange her
gifts for better gifts.
Okay, to exchange something for something better.
This is a very common construction.
It's an important phrase when talking about shopping.
So when we look at this construction, you would say, to exchange this sweater for a
better one or for a larger one.
So you can change the adjective, the word that's describing it.
So you can say, to exchange these shoes for bigger ones.
I could also joke and I could say, I'm going to exchange my boyfriend for a better one
if he's being rude to me.
Okay, so to exchange something for something else.
And then we saw another phrase that the husband replied to when she offended him with his
football team.
He said, oh no, you didn't.
Didn't what?
I know, didn't what?
No, you didn't what?
All right, so this, like you said, doesn't make sense alone, but some cultural context
might help.
In English, we often say this phrase to mean, oh no, you didn't just say that.
Oh, you didn't just insult my team.
He's saying, I can't believe you just said that.
He's upset because what she said was rude or mean.
So I could say, you know, Marco, I think Ecuador sucks.
Oh, no, you didn't.
I did just say, I don't think so actually, but it's usually a response, right?
You have to wait until somebody maybe says something mean or something that, you know,
really hurts her feelings or you don't agree with when you respond to this, but you're
usually very, very offended, right?
It's always a response to a comment that has made you angry or upset.
And then our last phrase is when they finished talking and they were fighting, she left and
said, I might just.
Just what?
I know, just what?
See, again, these are common phrases, but they don't seem to make much sense alone.
So let's listen to, this is a response again.
This is a response to the line before it.
Why don't you just, just go and return all of those stupid clothes and not come back
until much later?
And she says, I might just, I might just do exactly what you just said.
She's threatening him.
She's saying, I might just go out and not come back for 10 hours.
I might just do that.
So that's a way to say what you said.
I might do that.
And I'm threatening you.
So again, it's usually a response, right?
Or a threat, as you said.
So I can say, Marco, why don't you just leave?
Oh, what am I going to do in the studio alone?
So three interesting phrases there.
Why don't we listen to all the words and phrases again in our dialogue one last time.
So Boxing Day, as you said, is usually a Commonwealth thing.
In the United States, you don't really have it, right?
We do not.
My family, I don't know why, but my family sometimes celebrates that we have friends
who come over and we have a nice Boxing Day meal.
But I've been told that the tradition in Commonwealth countries is to watch sporting events, local
sporting events, and to go shopping for all these sales and bargains and exchange all
those ugly, hideous, annoying or bad gifts that you received at Christmas.
So it's usually like the after Christmas sales.
So if you have any special Boxing Day traditions, I'd be very curious to hear them.
Again, not a holiday related to the sport boxing.
It's spelled the same way and it looks the same, but they're very different.
So if you have any stories or questions about the things that we talked about today, please
do let us know on our website EnglishPod.com.
Happy Boxing.
My name is Catherine and today we have an elementary level lesson for you.
We are going to talk about winter but specifically about the clothes you wear during winter when
it's very, very cold outside.
That's right and I hear you're not too familiar with some of these practices because where
you come from you don't really have winter.
We don't have winter.
We have dry season and rainy season but same temperature.
Well Chicago definitely has a snowy season so I'm very familiar with these things.
So let's jump right into today's dialogue.
We'll be hearing it one time and in a minute we'll be back to talk about it.
Bye mom.
Wait, Jimmy.
It's cold outside.
Put a hat on.
Okay, bye.
No, wait.
You'll be too cold without mittens.
All right, see ya.
Hold on.
With that wind you're going to catch a cold.
Wear this scarf.
Okay, see you after school.
Oh, and earmuffs.
Put these on.
Here we go.
Mom?
Yes, honey?
I can't breathe.
So there were a couple of different items of clothing that we saw in this dialogue.
Okay, well, first of all we have mom and Jimmy.
Jimmy is a boy's name.
He's a little boy.
And mom is saying goodbye to him, but first she wants him to put on clothes.
So the first item, the first thing she asks him to put on is a hat.
A hat.
Now you probably have seen like a baseball cap or many different types of hats.
And sometimes in other languages they have specific names for a hat for winter, right?
But in English it's a hat.
Anything that covers your head is a hat.
That's kind of like the category.
So maybe this one is a warm wool hat, but in the end it's a hat.
It's a hat.
So he's put on the hat.
Now what else is he going to put on?
Well, we need to keep our fingers warm.
So there are two kinds of ways to keep your fingers warm.
And the way in this dialogue that the boy keeps his fingers warm is with mittens.
All right, so mittens you put on your hands.
Now what's the difference between mittens and gloves?
Okay, gloves have special places for each finger.
One, two, three, four, five on each hand.
And mittens, there's two spaces, one for your thumb and one for all your other fingers.
So that means you can't really hold things.
So you kind of look like a penguin or something like that.
Yeah, you look like a, yeah, exactly like a penguin.
And it's mostly for children.
Adults don't wear mittens because adults need to hold things like keys and phones and car
steering wheels.
So in this case, mittens is usually for children.
Okay, so mittens.
And well, the mother is still a little bit worried.
So she tells him to wear a scarf.
Okay, a scarf is a long, usually made of wool, a long piece of fabric that you put around
your neck to keep your neck warm.
Okay, so a scarf.
A scarf.
Okay, and he's put on the mittens, the scarf, the hat, and he's missing some earmuffs.
Okay, this is a little funny because usually if you're wearing a hat, you don't need earmuffs.
But earmuffs are like headphones, but they keep your ears warm.
And we wear these, they don't cover your head, they just cover your ears.
And usually they're just two round circles over your ears.
So as you say, exactly, they look like big earphones and they keep your ears warm.
Now, as you say, you usually don't wear this if you're wearing a hat because, well, you
would put your ears inside your hat, right?
So it looks pretty silly if he's wearing all of this together.
And so those four key items, those four key pieces of clothing are for our language takeaway
Why don't we listen to this dialogue again, and we'll come back soon to talk about Fluency
Bye, mom.
Wait, Jimmy, it's cold outside.
No, wait, you'll be too cold without mittens.
Hold on, with that wind you're gonna catch a cold.
Oh, and earmuffs, put these on.
So now let's take a look at four key phrases on Fluency Builder.
Okay, this first phrase, as I said before, has to do with the mom and the boy saying
goodbye to each other.
So he says, all right, see ya.
See ya.
Ya.
Okay, so see as in to look, to, right?
You see something.
And what about Y-A-Y?
Okay, so this is a very spoken language way of saying you.
So we could say, see you later, but if you want to make it shorter, you can say, see
ya.
Bye, goodbye.
All right, so see ya.
And then what's our next way of saying goodbye?
Oh, wait, that's...
We're not there yet.
No, hold on is our next phrase and this is a way to say wait.
Wait, hold on.
So you just say hold on, it means wait.
It's not really rude, right?
It's just a little bit more casual.
It's very casual.
So you cannot say hold.
That doesn't make sense.
You have to use these two words together.
So like I said before with Marco who wants to go fast, I could say, hold on.
Wait a second.
Okay, so hold on.
And now you got to be careful because you're going to catch a cold.
Okay, so a cold is when you cough, you have a sore throat, it's starting to get cold outside
and you don't feel well.
So you have a runny nose.
It's an illness.
And most people get this every year.
It's very common.
But you don't get a cold, you catch a cold.
So catch is the same word we use for when we talk about sports like throwing and catching.
It's almost like it just hits you.
It's so fast.
You just catch a cold.
So that's really important what you just said because you don't use the verb get.
You don't get a cold.
Or if you say that you were sick last week because you had a cold, you would say, oh,
I caught a cold or I had a cold.
So remember present tense, I catch a cold.
Past tense, I caught a cold last week.
And our last phrase for fluency builder is here we go.
Okay, so when do we hear this phrase?
So the mother says to the boy, put these on, here we go.
So she's doing something with him.
She's helping him put his earmuffs on.
And here we go is a way to say, okay, I've finished.
Okay, I'm done.
Okay, your earmuffs are on you.
So you're ready.
So we say here we go.
Like everything is ready.
Your earmuffs are on.
So maybe I'm on my computer and I have a problem and I'm waiting, waiting, waiting, waiting,
waiting.
And you know when the bar's loading.
And finally, ding, it's ready.
It's ready.
Now I can start.
Or sometimes a waitress will come and serve you food and say, here we go.
Here's your order.
So this is a way to say what you've been waiting for.
It's ready now.
So I think it's time for us to listen to this dialogue one last time before we come
back.
With that wind, you're going to catch a cold.
See you after school.
Yes, honey.
So as you mentioned, in Chicago it's very, very cold.
So I imagine you had all of these winter clothes, right?
And it's funny because I remember being a small child and my mother doing this to me,
putting on snow pants and boots and earmuffs and hats and gloves and scarves.
And all of a sudden, it's winter and I'm standing on my own.
And my mother's like, oh, you're getting a cold?
And I'm like, no, I'm not.
I'm not cold.
because I remember being a small child
and my mother doing this to me,
putting on snow pants and boots and earmuffs
and hats and gloves and scarves,
and all of a sudden, it's so hot inside
because you're wearing everything
and so you can't even walk like you were saying,
you look like a penguin walking out the door.
And then you get to school and you're sweating, right?
And so in school, we had to take,
we had a special room and we had to take everything off
because there's snow everywhere
and snow can be very dangerous because it melts
and it turns into water.
Okay, so I have very strong memories of all of this,
putting them on, taking them off
and just being warm all the time.
Well, yeah, when it's cold
or you live in a place with cold weather,
you have to have these items of clothing
because otherwise you might catch a cold.
Exactly, so I hope that no one out there catches a cold,
but if you want some suggestions,
wear a scarf, cover your neck, that's the most important,
your head and your scarf are the most important.
All right, and if you guys have any other questions
or comments, you can visit our website, englishpod.com
and we'll see everyone there.
♪♪♪
My name is Catherine and today Marco and I have an elementary level lesson for you.
It's a new year and so we have a lesson for you where we are going to make new decisions
and have a new opportunity in the new year, right?
So the new year is the time to change parts of your life maybe.
So that's what we're going to talk about today.
Let's listen to this dialogue three times and when we come back we'll be talking about
the words and phrases in the dialogue.
Now that it's the new year, I've decided to turn over a new leaf.
You finally decided to wipe the slate clean?
You got it.
I have a new job.
I'm living in a new city with new friends.
This is my opportunity to make some small changes in the way I live my life.
So what are you going to do?
Take up an art class or something?
Well first of all, I've decided to stop smoking.
It's not that I'm pinching pennies or anything.
It's just that I've been smoking since I was 16 and I think it's time to stop.
I'm with you on that one.
Anything else you're planning on doing?
One last thing.
I've decided to come out of the closet.
Alright we're back and so if you notice the dialogue has actually a lot of really really
rich phrases in there.
So today we're going to change the format a little bit and we're going to do Fluency
Builder in two different sections.
So starting out with the first one on Fluency Builder part one.
So the new year we think about new things, changing things.
We have a great phrase in English to describe starting fresh, starting anew.
And we say turn over a new leaf.
Okay so you turn over a new leaf.
So that means that you are going to maybe make a radical change, right?
Completely new.
So if you think about it, it's a new chapter in your life or a new adventure or something
Maybe you're going to quit your job.
Turn over a new leaf.
Start a new job.
So you can say I'm going to turn over a new leaf or Sarah turned over a new leaf and quit
Let's turn over a new leaf and forget the past.
Alright so to turn over a new leaf.
So just imagine that you have a leaf on the ground and you turn it over and it's nice
and clean.
And talking about cleanliness, our second phrase is to wipe the slate clean.
Okay when I think about this phrase, I think about a chalkboard.
So a slate is like a chalkboard and all of the things that you've done, good and bad,
are on that chalkboard.
And to wipe the slate clean means to erase those words, erase those things.
So perhaps Marco and I fight all the time and we're angry at each other.
Finally I say listen, Marco, let's wipe the slate clean.
Let's forget the past.
Let's forget the things we said and start again.
Start a new leaf.
To wipe the slate clean is to just start over.
You know just to erase everything, let's forget about it and start over.
Alright and so we're starting over and his friend is asking you decided to wipe the slate
clean and the friend said you got it.
You got what?
It.
In English we love the word it.
Well in this case you got it means you're right exactly.
You understand what I'm talking about.
So if you agree with me or I understand what you're talking about you would say you got
Alright so I'm trying to explain to you maybe Marco something very difficult like if you
add four and ten you get fourteen but what if you add ten more?
It's twenty four.
Okay so he understands math.
Okay so that's the way you would use you got it.
It's a really popular phrase.
I mean you can use it on pretty much anything not only if you're right but also if somebody
agrees with it or you promise something right.
So are you going to pick me up today?
Yeah you got it.
So it's a way to agree or to show that you're saying yes.
Okay so why don't we listen to our dialogue again and we'll come back shortly to look
at Fluency Builder part two.
Now that it's the new year I've decided to turn over a new leaf.
Well first of all I've decided to stop smoking.
It's not that I'm pinching pennies or anything it's just that I've been smoking since I was
sixteen and I think it's time to stop.
Alright we're back so now let's continue with our Fluency Builder.
And well they kept talking and the guy mentioned that he's going to stop smoking.
But it's not because he is pinching pennies.
Oh pinching.
That sounds painful.
Okay pinching is something you do especially when you're a child.
You squeeze the skin.
Pinch and it hurts.
So to pinch really is to hold something with two fingers.
To pinch pennies means to try to spend very very very little money.
So if we say if I say hey Marco you want to go to dinner tonight?
There's this really nice Italian place.
It's a little expensive but.
Oh I can't I'm sorry.
I'm really pinching pennies these days because I'm kind of broke.
So maybe we'll go somewhere cheaper.
So actually pennies are one cent coins.
They're called pennies in the United States.
That's right and it's the smallest kind of money that we have in America.
So if you're pinching pennies, if you're saving pennies, it means you really don't have much
You're really really saving.
Okay so pinching pennies.
So he decided to quit smoking and his friend agreed with him and said you know what I'm
with you on that one.
Okay so you quit smoking Marco and I quit smoking.
I think it's a good idea.
If I'm with you on that one it means I agree with you.
You're doing the right thing.
So you can say I'm with you on that one or you can just say you know what I'm with you.
Do it.
I'm with you.
I support your decision.
So you are going to go skydiving in a couple weeks.
That means you're going to jump out of an airplane.
I'm not with you on that one.
You don't support my decision.
I think it's okay for you but I would not want to do it.
Right so you can do it in that way or just anything.
You support somebody's decision.
Alright and our last phrase.
To come out of the closet.
So who's in the closet?
Why is somebody hiding in the closet?
Okay someone's not really hiding in the closet.
This is a phrase we use to describe someone who is gay or lesbian who has a secret about
being a gay or lesbian.
So when they come out of the closet, they're telling their friends and family for the first
time that this is how they feel.
So it's basically a phrase that's kind of a metaphor to say you know what I'm going
to tell everyone that I am gay or lesbian.
Well it's because in English often times a closet is a place where we keep secrets.
So to come out of the closet means to share your secrets with people.
So sometimes in English you say you have skeletons in the closet.
This is a little different.
Maybe I killed someone and it's a skeleton in my closet.
It's a secret that I keep.
But a skeleton in your closet can also be a very big secret like you were once married
and you never told anyone.
Yeah or I have two kids and I never told you guys.
So those are the skeletons in the closet but in this case it's to come out of the closet
and that's always related to telling somebody for the first time that you are gay or lesbian.
That's right and we don't say it about being straight which is the opposite which is men
who love women and women who love men.
You don't say it about coming out of the closet there.
You say it about being gay or lesbian.
So very interesting and so I think we should listen to this dialogue for the last time
and we'll be back to talk a little bit more.
You finally decided to wipe the slate clean.
So this is very interesting and these phrases are so common because if you have a fight
with somebody you say, you know what, let's just wipe the slate clean and start all over
again or let's turn over a new leaf.
Let's stop fighting.
And especially in New Year's, right, everyone makes a promise to start fresh.
Well the new year you can use a new calendar.
You can take a fresh perspective on your life.
It's refreshing and I think it's good that we do this.
We evaluate the things that make us happy and we evaluate the things that make us unhappy
and part of that means turning over a new leaf.
Part of it also means apologizing to people or trying to make the relationships in your
life healthier.
And I think it's very healthy that the person in this dialogue says, listen, I'm finally
going to come out of the closet.
I'm going to be honest with my friends and family.
And that's really interesting because as we said, to come out of the closet is a phrase
used in English and mostly related only in this context so you might see it in TV shows
or in a movie.
But it's an interesting topic, still debatable all over the world about gay marriages and
things like that.
So we're curious about your New Year's resolutions.
Are you going to be wiping any slates clean?
Are you going to be doing anything differently this year?
We look forward to hearing from you and until next time.
My name is Kathryn and today we have a wild lesson for you at the elementary level.
We are actually going to visit a farm.
So yeah, it's going to be fun.
We're going to see a lot of animals.
And not only that, but we're going to learn a lot of interesting words and phrases in
English today.
But before we get started, let's take a look at vocabulary preview.
Old MacDonald had a farm, ee-yah, ee-yah-oh.
And on his farm he had a duck, ee-yah, ee-yah-oh.
We're not going to be teaching you this song today.
You don't have to listen to us sing.
We do have a great word to start us off.
It's called, the word is country.
Okay, so you know country as like the United States.
Mexico.
Mexico, China, etc.
But in this case, we are going out to the country.
Not out of the country, we're going out to the country.
To the country, okay?
The country, or you might hear, the countryside is a place that's not like a city.
So it's the opposite of city.
It means there's lots of grass, it's very natural, there are very, very few houses and
people, it's very quiet.
So it's the opposite of a busy city.
It's the country.
You have a lot of animals.
So usually, farms are found on the countryside or at the countryside.
In the countryside.
So usually farms are found in the countryside.
And I personally am a big fan because it's so quiet and peaceful.
We can talk about that in a minute.
Let's listen to today's dialogue first and then we'll be back to talk about some of the
Isn't this great?
I always wanted to own a farm, live out in the country, grow my own food.
This is very beautiful.
Though I have to confess, I don't know the first thing about farming.
What was that?
It was just a goat.
And that?
It's just the cows that are grazing over there.
We can milk them later.
Honey, seriously.
It's just a sheep.
That was just the horses and donkeys that are in the stable.
I don't think I can hack it out here in the countryside.
I'm going back to the city.
So obviously some people cannot go to the countryside.
Some people get very, very upset.
In fact, there was a whole TV show in America that was about city people living in the countryside.
Let's see if they can do it, right?
All right, but before we talk about that, why don't we take a look at four key words
in language takeaway.
The first word is the name of an animal.
Okay, so you've all heard of cows, but have you heard of goats?
A goat.
All right, so a goat is a strange looking animal.
It's kind of skinny.
What do you get from a goat?
You can actually drink goat's milk.
Many people like to eat goat's cheese, which is cheese made from goat's milk.
Okay, so a goat.
We heard the sound that a goat makes, so I think it's pretty clear what a goat is.
They're very common, as we say, in farms, such as sheep and horses, cows, etc.
That's right, and normally, when they're in the wild, they like to live in rocky places,
like mountains.
Right, that's why they say they're very good climbers, because they don't fall off the
mountains.
All right, and well, if you have cows, then they're probably going to be grazing.
Okay, so to graze is a verb.
It's something we do.
Well, we people don't do it.
Animals do it.
It's a way for us to describe how animals, like cows, eat.
Means to eat grass.
Okay, so if your cows or horses are grazing, that means they're eating grass somewhere
That's right, they're walking, they stop, they eat some grass, they walk, they stop
It's a very slow process.
All right, so cows are usually grazing out in the countryside, and well, once they finish
grazing and they get all fat, then in the mornings, you have to milk them.
Okay, so we drink milk.
Milk is a thing, but it's also a verb.
So to milk something.
All right, and if you milk a cow, is when you extract the milk, the liquid from them.
That's right, so underneath a cow, there's an udder, or underneath a cow, there are udders,
which you have to squeeze with your hands to make the milk come out.
Okay, an interesting word as well, udder.
It's like that big bag full of milk.
Exactly, so to milk a cow.
All right, and you have cows out in the fields grazing, and probably your horses and donkeys
are going to be in the stable.
The stable is a place, okay, so this is something that's often found on farms, where the horses
or the cows live.
It's a structure, it's a building for those animals.
Okay, so they're probably separated in different little rooms or compartments, and that's called
a stable.
So as you say, you usually find horses and cows and donkeys in there.
That's right, so a stable is a way to protect animals from the weather.
So four key words there as we just saw.
Why don't we listen to this dialogue again, and we'll be back soon.
This is very beautiful, though I have to confess, I don't know the first thing about farming.
That's fine, don't worry about it.
Relax, it was just a goat.
Honey, seriously, it's just a sheep.
Relax, that was just the horses and donkeys that are in the stable.
You know, Marco, I have to confess.
I love Fluency Builder.
All right, and that's our first phrase for today.
I have to confess.
Okay, so to confess is to tell someone something that's a secret.
So we can confess with a priest.
So we can confess to a priest.
We can confess a secret to a friend.
But I have to confess is a very common phrase.
It's a way for us to start a sentence.
So you're saying I have to be honest with you.
I have to tell you the truth.
So I have to confess.
I'm not a huge fan of that sweater.
So I have to be honest.
I really don't like your sweater.
This is a way for us to be more polite when we're saying something that's negative.
And in this case, it was a girl who was confessing and what she confessed is her second key phrase.
I don't know the first thing about farming.
Okay, so I don't know anything about farming.
There's another way we could say this or I don't know a thing about farming.
But I don't know the first thing about farming means I don't even understand what a farm
Okay, the first thing is what is a farm?
I don't even understand what a farm is for.
This is a way for us to say I don't know anything at all about this.
And if we change the noun, right, and we can say for example, I don't know the first thing
about cars.
So I have no idea what models they are or what type of engine they have.
I don't know the first thing about cars.
All I know is how to turn them on.
Or I don't know the first thing about wines.
I'd love to learn about wine, but I don't know the first thing about it.
Okay, so it's a phrase that you can use with many, many different nouns, right?
I don't know the first thing about architecture.
I don't know the first thing about English.
Right, well, we do and that's why we're here to help you.
But this is a really great phrase to describe not understanding anything at all about something.
So this is a really great way to describe not knowing anything at all about something.
Okay, and well, obviously since she didn't know the first thing about farming, she ended
up leaving and she said, you know what?
Okay, so I can hack it, he can't hack it.
We use this with the verb to be able to and it means I don't think I can do this.
I think this is too hard.
Or maybe if somebody quit, right, after a week at the office and you can say he couldn't
hack it.
He couldn't hack the pressure and he left.
So that means to handle or to be able to handle or to withstand.
So I just don't think I can hack the cold.
Right, I can't handle the cold.
It's too cold here.
I'm moving somewhere warm.
All right, so I'm sure you guys will be able to hack our dialogue one last time.
So let's listen to it and we'll be back.
So as you said, you're a fan of the countryside and about farming, right?
Well, I wish I knew more about farming.
I don't know the first thing about milking a cow, but I do come from a part of the world
in Illinois near Chicago where we have a lot of farms and I appreciate the quiet and having
animals around and being able to go on long walks without cars and horns and bicycles.
It is actually a little bit refreshing to be out in the countryside sometimes and not
even have internet or cell phone coverage or anything.
So it's just basically you can't do anything else but relax, read a book, talk to people.
Now an interesting thing about this is a lot of people take for granted the countryside
because I've met many people who live in the city, who grew up in the city and have never
seen, for example, a live chicken.
And when they see it, they just freak out and take pictures with the chicken or a cow
That's so funny.
Well, I think it's very valuable.
I think there are very valuable skills that you learn being out in the countryside like
how to cook for yourself.
There's no one else who can cook for you or how to get food from animals.
Or maybe you can't even use a microwave.
So how do you cook without a microwave or something?
And I think the biggest problem for city people when they come to the countryside is that
it's dirtier.
You know, you get mud and there are bugs.
And I imagine some of our co-workers here having a very hard time in the countryside.
Yes, indeed.
So why don't you guys come to our website EnglishPod.com.
Let us know what you think about this.
Maybe you're very familiar with the countryside or have a relative who's a farmer.
Visit us EnglishPod.com and if you have any questions or comments, you can leave them
there as well.
Can't wait to hear from you.
Happy studies.
But now I'm confused how he 1999!
My name is Catherine and today we have an upper intermediate level lesson for all of
We're going to be talking business on this occasion on EnglishPod but specifically about
planning a business.
So before a business opens, a lot of planning has to happen.
That means people will decide what kind of a product they want to sell, what kind of
a market they want to sell to, etc.
So that is the focus of today's lesson.
Let's take a listen to the dialogue for the first time and we'll be back in a minute to
talk about what's going on.
I've had it.
I'm done working for a company that is taking me nowhere.
Just quit?
That's exactly what I'm going to do.
I've decided to create my own company.
I'm going to write up a business plan, get some investors and start working for myself.
Have you ever written up a business plan before?
Well, no.
It can't be that hard.
I mean, all you have to do is explain your business.
How are you going to do things?
And that's it, right?
You couldn't be more wrong.
A well-written business plan will include an executive summary which highlights the
idea of the business in two pages or less.
Then you need to describe your company with information such as what type of legal structure
it has, history, etc.
Well that seems easy enough.
Wait, there's more!
Then you need to introduce and describe your goods or services, what they are and how they're
different from competitors.
Then comes the hard part, a market analysis.
You need to investigate and analyse hundreds of variables.
You need to take into consideration socio-economic factors from GDP per capita to how many children
on average the population has.
All this information is useful so that you can move on to your strategy and implementation
stage where you will describe in detail how you will actually execute your idea.
Geez, is that all?
The most important piece of information for your investors will be the financial analysis.
Here you will calculate and estimate sales, cash flow and profits.
After all, people will want to know when they will begin to see a return on their investment.
I think I'll just stick to my old job and save myself all the hassle of trying to start
up a business.
So the guy wanted to open up a business but his friend explained that it's not so easy
and gave a lot of interesting words and phrases there.
He seemed a little naive.
Like he didn't really know how much work is involved in opening a business.
So I think we should take a look at some of the words used on Language Takeaway.
The first word is the heart and soul of the process before you open a business.
It's the business plan.
Alright so the business plan.
As you said it's a noun and it's basically a document that explains what's going on in
the business.
It's a paper that you write about the business that you want to open and it's a plan.
So that's what the name says.
You have to tell what you will do, how much money you will spend, how much money you will
need.
Because if you're asking people for money, they want to know where the money will be
spent if it's going to be spent on wise decisions.
And as you mentioned, you show this business plan maybe to a bank but also maybe to an
investor.
So investor is our next word.
It's another noun but this noun is a person.
A person is an investor.
If he or she gives money to someone else and expects more money to come back.
So a person that's starting out a business maybe has enough money himself to open up
a business but sometimes you need extra money so you look for investors.
People who are interested in giving you money.
For example, I have a cupcake company.
I want to sell cupcakes to people and I need a thousand dollars.
So Marco, do you want to be an investor?
Do you want to invest some money?
A cupcake company.
I know but what happens if I don't sell cupcakes?
That's a problem for you because you have made a risky investment.
So that's what happens with investors.
But now if you want to attract the attention of your investors with your business plan,
I think part of the most important aspects of this plan is the executive summary.
A summary is usually an outline of the important points of a paper or a document.
So in this case I could say, Catherine's cupcake company will sell delicious cupcakes of 10
different flavors to the market of 5 year olds, 55 year olds.
People will love them.
She has a great secret recipe and she plans to triple her investments by next year.
So if an investor reads the executive summary, which shouldn't be more than two pages long,
you can pretty much get the idea of what the business is about.
So if you want more details, you have to read the rest of the business plan.
But mainly with the executive summary, you can more or less know what it's all about.
So a summary, like I said, is something that should be short and it should give you all
of the most important information about something.
And while they were talking more in depth about analyzing things and doing some research,
and among those things, the girl mentioned the socio-economic factors.
Okay, when I said we're going to sell cupcakes from my company to people between the ages
of 5 and 55, we need to analyze, we need to look at their socio-economic factors.
Socio comes from the word social.
It means where in society they are, they're upper class, middle class or lower class.
Economic means how much money do they make?
Do they make $10,000 a year or $100,000 a year?
And so the kind of people we want to sell my cupcakes to will change according to their
socio-economic factors.
So as you mentioned, socio comes from the word social or from society.
So you're analyzing these factors from society.
And well, part of these factors is the GDP per capita.
So we have two different words there.
An acronym, GDP.
GDP, gross domestic product.
That might seem confusing because gross means different things at different times.
But in this case, domestic means our country.
So within a country, all of the products added up together.
And gross is basically that.
Just all the products added up together without taking into consideration any other things.
So the GDP is basically all the goods and services produced in a country within a given
And what about per capita though?
So per capita comes from Latin.
Per means four or each.
And capita is a head.
So this is per person.
So GDP per capita means how much, how many goods and services are made divided by the
number of people in that place.
So you probably have these indicators in your country or your own language as well.
But that's basically it.
And the acronym is gross domestic product.
And just to explain a little bit, if you see this in Wikipedia or in an encyclopedia,
normally a very low GDP per capita is $500, American dollars.
And a high one would be $35,000.
$35,000, yeah.
And that's usually per year, right?
Because that's usually how it's taken into consideration.
The time is a year.
So those are the words that we have for you on language takeaway.
Now why don't we move on to a couple of different phrases on Fluency Builder.
So this is important.
First phrase, Marco, has to do with our last first phrase.
We had a business plan.
So what do you do?
You write up a business plan.
And that's a common way of saying to write or to create, to work on a business plan,
to write up.
So it's something that we say that's very colloquial.
Something that is very spoken.
And I can't explain why we say it, but you'll sound very fluent if you say, I'm going to
write up a business plan.
Or why don't you write up a business plan?
So it would be correct to say, I'm going to write a business plan or I have to write a
business plan.
But if you use this phrase, I'm going to write up a business plan, it's more fluent, right?
It's just more native-like.
And our next phrase is a return on investment.
So early we talked about investors.
The money that they invest is called an investment.
These words are all very closely related.
And when Marco decided to give money to my cupcake business, he expects the money to
come back and he expects more actually to come back than what he put in.
So that's called a return on investment.
The money that's the difference.
So if he gives me a thousand dollars and I give him back $1,500 in a year, he made $500.
So that means it's a good return on his investment.
So that's the term that we use, a return on investment.
So you don't say to return on investment, you see a return on investment.
It's a thing, it's a number, it's a quantity.
It's something you can count.
And well, in the end, after seeing that this business plan is not so easy, the guy said,
you know what?
I'm not going to quit my job and just save myself the hassle.
What's a hassle?
The hassle.
That's an interesting word.
So if I'm going to save myself the hassle, a hassle is like the problem or the hard work
that it involves.
It's a lot of trouble.
A lot of trouble.
So I was going to cook some dinner tonight, but I'm going to save myself the hassle of
going to the grocery store and buying it and cooking it by just ordering food.
So that's a good example.
Instead of doing all the work of cooking, you just save yourself the hassle, pick up
the phone and get food delivered to your house.
So you can change here, you can say save myself, save yourself, save his self.
So you change that pronoun.
The pronoun.
So you can save yourself the hassle or I'm just going to save myself the hassle.
So that's about it for fluency builder.
Let's listen to today's dialogue one more time and we'll be back in a minute to talk
about business.
Well, no, it can't be that hard.
A well-written business plan will include an executive summary, which highlights the
Well, that seems easy enough.
Wait, there's more.
You need to investigate and analyze hundreds of variables.
You need to take into consideration socioeconomic factors from GDP per capita to how many children
stage, where you will describe in detail how you will actually execute your idea.
So it was pretty interesting that he wanted to quit his job and just, you know, set up
a business.
But actually, many people say that business plans are unnecessary.
Do these people have lots of money and they don't need investors?
I think the problem is that there are many books out there that give you clear examples
of companies, Fortune 500 companies, that started out without a business plan.
So I think many people take this as a rule.
A rule.
Like, well, they didn't need one or it's not really necessary or why should I write up
a business plan?
Well, I'm not an entrepreneur and I'm not a business person, but my feeling is that
a business plan is as much for investors as it is for yourself.
It helps you clarify your goals.
It helps you explain your objectives to your future colleagues.
And I think it's just a really good way to map out the first year of a business because
it tends to, a lot of businesses fail in that first year.
So I think this is a really important step.
So it's very interesting.
We've talked a little bit about business here, but we would like to know your ideas or your
comments or any other suggestions that you have about this topic or any topic on EnglishPod.
So why don't you send us a comment or a personal message.
We are at EnglishPod.com and we'll see you guys there.
See you there.
Katherine – My name is Katherine and today we have an intermediate level lesson for you
English learners out there.
Marco – That's right.
On this occasion, we are going on a diet.
So we're trying to lose weight.
Katherine – Uh-oh.
Well, there's a reason behind it.
Let's take a look at that reason in today's vocabulary preview.
Marco – All right.
So today on Vocabulary Preview, we have a noun and it's a bridesmaid.
Katherine – A bridesmaid, a person.
So this is kind of like a job but it's a short job.
You do it when your friend gets married.
It's the person, the woman who stands next to her friend on the friend's wedding day.
And usually bridesmaids want to lose weight because they have to get into this dress,
Katherine – That's right.
They have special dresses.
They have to make their friend look good.
They have to match each other actually because usually there's three or four girls.
They all have to wear the same outfit.
So it's very stressful.
Marco – Okay.
So we're going to see what's going on in this dialogue and we'll be back shortly.
Oh man, I've been starving myself for days now and I haven't lost an ounce.
Are you trying to lose weight?
Yeah, my friend is getting married next month and I'm supposed to be a bridesmaid.
I have to fit into my dress and look nice for her wedding, but I haven't lost any weight.
Look at these love handles.
You don't have to starve yourself to lose weight.
I think that's where you're going wrong.
If I eat less, then my body will start eating away at my fat reserves, right?
You should try to not eat foods high in calories, salts or saturated fats.
Stay away from oily food and artificial flavors.
So you're saying that I should eat, but I should just watch what I eat?
You should also try to reduce your intake of carbohydrates and foods that are high in
cholesterol.
You can have steamed veggies or increase your protein intake found in chicken or fish.
If I do all of this, you think I can lose 20 pounds in four weeks?
Don't count on it.
So I think there were a lot of interesting words related to food and to losing weight.
So why don't we take a look now at language takeaway.
Okay, this first phrase in language takeaway is a phrase that the girl says about herself.
She's trying to lose weight.
She's been starving herself or she says, I've been starving myself.
I've been starving myself.
So to starve yourself is to make yourself not eat.
So to starve is a verb.
It means to not give someone food.
But to starve yourself, to starve oneself is reflexive.
I'm doing it to myself and it means that I'm not giving myself any food.
So you're starving yourself basically to lose weight.
And she said, well, I've been starving myself for days and I haven't lost an ounce.
What is an ounce?
An ounce is a kind of weight.
So like a kilogram or a gram or a pound, but an ounce is a very, very small measurement.
And this is in the imperial system.
So maybe a lot of our listeners aren't familiar with it, but usually for example, pounds and
ounces go together just like grams and kilograms.
So I might be wrong.
I think there are 16 ounces in a pound.
So if you think about it, a pound, you say, oh, I lost a pound.
16 ounces.
She hasn't even lost an ounce.
It's a way to say she hasn't lost any weight yet.
So she was complaining about not losing weight and she said, look at these love handles.
What are love handles?
I love this phrase because you can like imagine them.
So imagine hugging someone and your hands are on their waist and maybe they have a little
extra fat.
Those are like love handles.
You know, a handle is what you have on a door.
You turn the handle and the door opens.
But these are, this is fat on someone's side.
So a man or a woman can have fat on their hips and this is called love handles.
So love handles.
It's a nice way of saying that extra little fat that people have on their sides.
And now talking more specifically about words related to food, we have one that maybe most
of you are familiar with, calories.
Calories.
So calorie is a measurement of energy in food.
And so a lot of women and some men too like to avoid eating many calories.
They say, oh, that Snickers bar that has 1000 calories.
If actually, if you look at your food labels, it usually says that you should have a daily
diet should include more or less 2000 calories.
Another thing to avoid are saturated fats.
So there's fat and there's saturated fat.
Marco, what's the difference?
There are two different types of fats.
Some of them are good for you.
Your body needs fat, right?
But saturated fats are the ones that are more difficult for your body to absorb and to make
them work for you.
So usually they accumulate and that's why maybe they will, for example, make you a little
bit fatter.
So a lot of sweets have saturated fats.
Oily foods have saturated fats and it's good to avoid those.
So stay away from saturated fats and artificial flavors.
So the word artificial can be used with many different things.
It means fake, not natural.
So you could say you have artificial flowers or artificial scents.
But in this case, we have artificial flavors.
That means fake flavors.
It's orange flavored, but there's no oranges.
It never came from an orange.
You have to be careful with these because they use, because in many food products, chemicals
are used.
And sugars, for example.
So as you said, if you want to make something taste like orange, maybe they will use different
chemicals and sugars to make it taste like orange.
The last thing we have to avoid is this word cholesterol.
Cholesterol.
So these are found, for example, in eggs have a lot of cholesterol.
Or even just meats in general, like red meat.
And so people with heart problems are told to avoid cholesterol because it can actually,
it can prevent the blood going to your heart.
It blocks up your heart.
So cholesterol is another bad one.
So all of these words are nouns and they're related to dieting and to food.
So I think we should listen to this dialogue again and keep a lookout for these words.
If I eat less than my body will start eating away at my fat reserves, right?
You can also try to reduce your intake of carbohydrates and foods that are high in cholesterol.
We're going to take a look at two phrases on Fluency Builder.
Okay, this first phrase is something that the girl who is dieting says.
She says, are you saying that I should eat?
Because she's starving herself.
But that the important thing is that I watch what I eat.
So what is this watch what I eat?
So to watch what you eat is to be careful of what you eat or to take care.
So it doesn't actually mean to look at your food a lot.
You don't have to stare at your food.
You just have to be careful or to pay attention to what you're eating.
So you should watch what you eat.
So that means pay attention.
Does it have lots of calories?
Is there a lot of cholesterol?
Things like this.
For example, you may see signs in some places that say, watch your step.
So be careful where you're stepping.
Well, this next phrase is the very last phrase.
The friend says, do you think I can lose 20 pounds?
And for those of you who use kilos, this is about eight kilos.
That's a lot of weight.
And the answer is don't count on it.
So what is this don't count on it?
Take that as a phrase.
It basically means that probably won't happen.
So you think you can come to my birthday party?
No, don't count on it.
I'll be busy.
Oh, so that means that means he probably won't.
Marco probably won't come.
So you shouldn't expect it to happen because he can't promise that it will.
That's a good way of putting it.
Don't expect it to happen.
So for example, don't count on winning the lottery anytime soon.
Why not?
Because it's very difficult, right?
So don't count on it.
Or you can say, don't count on this train being on time.
It's always at least a half an hour late.
So many different examples there.
I think we should listen to a dialogue for the last time.
You should try to not eat foods high in calories, salts, or saturated fats.
So these are some pretty healthy tips, right?
Watch what you eat and don't starve yourself.
Starving yourself, I think is, well, obviously very unhealthy.
To starve, to die of starvation, that's the noun.
Not a very pretty way to go.
I've actually also heard that people that start to eat less, right?
To maybe just eat once a day, their body actually thinks that there isn't much food around,
so they start to store up these fats and these calories, energy, instead of releasing them
normally.
So instead of actually losing weight, you actually gain weight because the moment that
you eat, your body stores everything.
So instead of getting rid of those good fats, your body stores them with the saturated fats
and you are doing the opposite to your body that you should be doing.
So the best recommendation that I've always heard is to avoid eating too much red meat,
balance your diet out, eat lots of fruit as well, have those good sugars, and avoid artificial
foods.
Drink a lot of water.
Drink a lot of water and exercise.
Exercise, yeah.
This is the key thing.
I think many people rely only on dieting or eating less, but actually nothing can take
its place more than exercise.
And exercise is really great because it tones those muscles, so once you actually lose the
weight, you feel good, you have muscles, you have more energy, and it helps you sleep.
So some sound advice here at EnglishPod.
And if you have any other questions or doubts, visit our website, EnglishPod.com, and we'll
see everyone there.
Happy studies and until next time.
My name is Kathryn and today we're talking about things at the office.
We are at the office but this time we are going to ask our boss or manager for a raise.
Alright, so what is this word raise?
Let's take a look at it in today's vocabulary preview.
Alright, so we're going to ask for a raise.
So if you are at your office and you talk to your boss and you say, I want a raise,
what does that mean?
That means I want more money.
Okay, so I want a raise or increase in my salary.
So a raise is a thing that you ask for and in this case a raise means that you already
work at the company, you already have a salary and you want some more money each month.
Okay, so that's what we're going to be talking about today.
Let's listen to this dialogue.
Excuse me sir, may I talk to you?
Bill, sure, come on in.
Well sir, as you know, I have been an employee of this prestigious firm for over 10 years.
I won't beat around the bush.
Sir, I would like a raise.
I currently have three companies after me and so I decided to talk to you first.
A raise?
Son, I would love to give you a raise but this is just not the right time.
I understand your position and I know that the current economic downturn has had a negative
impact on sales but you must also take into consideration my hard work, proactiveness
and loyalty to this company for over a decade.
Taking into account these factors and considering I don't want to start a brain drain, I'm
willing to offer you a 10% raise and an extra five days of vacation time.
How does that sound?
Bill, thank you sir.
Before you go, just out of curiosity, what companies were after you?
Oh, the electric company, the gas company and the water company.
So, the conversation we just heard is a conversation between a manager or a boss and the employee.
And the employee says, listen, I need to talk to you about something.
I have been an employee at this prestigious firm for over 10 years.
So prestigious is our first word.
Prestigious is an adjective, right?
And it means very respected, very well known.
Esteemed, that's right.
So something that is prestigious has a good reputation.
Like for example, some universities.
You hear all the time about American universities like Harvard or Yale, which are considered
to be prestigious universities.
Or the Nobel Peace Prize is a very prestigious award.
So it's an adjective to describe something that's respectable, well known or esteemed,
as you said.
Our next one is not so happy.
This is what we've been experiencing in the global economy this last year or two.
It's called an economic downturn.
So an economic downturn is something negative, as you said.
So it means that the economy is not doing very well.
So economy, economic, you know what this means.
But in this case, downturn is the key part of this phrase to slow down or to decrease.
So a downturn is a time when less people are making money and less money overall is being
earned.
So an economic downturn.
So let me move on to our next word, which is negative impact.
So the thing working here is the economic downturn and it has had a negative impact
on our sales, on this company's sales.
So a negative impact, as you know from the first word, is not a good thing.
It's an effect, right?
An effect, but that's negative.
So it's not a good effect.
So I could say that, Marco, being late has had a negative impact on your work lately.
Or the opposite now.
What if something is a good effect on something?
So Marco, your hard work has had a really positive impact on this company lately.
So you can use it negative impact or a positive impact.
So impact again is just the effect that something has on something else.
And while the boss said that he agrees to give him a raise because in part he didn't
want to start a brain drain.
Oh, this is a very common phrase you hear about countries.
They have a brain drain or they want to avoid a brain drain.
A drain is the part of a sink or a bathtub where the water goes down.
It goes away.
And so brain drain means all the brains or intelligent people or educated people leave
a country and go to another country.
Or in this case, leave a company and go to another company.
So for example, if all the employees at Apple, maybe they start to quit or they start to
move jobs and start to work for maybe Microsoft or Google, that's a brain drain, right?
Because you're talking about a large number of people.
Maybe they're all unhappy because they say that working at Apple is not very nice.
So they all leave and go to this other company.
The same is true with countries.
You can have very, very well-educated people who when they stop studying, they want jobs,
they all look somewhere else.
They go to America or Mexico or England.
And so that's called a brain drain because they all go away.
So five great phrases right there and words for you.
Let's listen to this dialogue again and we'll be back to take a look at Fluency Builder.
May I talk to you?
Bill.
Well, sir, as you know, I have been an employee of this prestigious firm for over 10 years.
Son, I would love to give you a raise, but this is just not the right time.
impact on sales.
But you must also take into consideration my hard work, proactiveness and loyalty to
this company for over a decade.
Taking into account these factors and considering I don't want to start a brain drain, I'm willing
to offer you a 10% raise and an extra five days of vacation time.
It's a deal.
Thank you, sir.
Oh, uh, the electric company, the gas company and the water company.
This first phrase in today's Fluency Builder is one of my favorites.
It's something that we say often when we're having a conversation and we want the other
person to just tell us what they're talking about.
So the guy said, you know what?
I'm not going to beat around the bush.
Or you could also say, please don't beat around the bush.
So I'm not sure where this phrase comes from, but it means please be direct or I'm going
to be direct.
I will not wait any longer to tell you what I'm talking about.
So if somebody is beating around the bush, that means they are not being direct.
They're not telling you something immediately.
It's you know, like when a person is trying to think, but you know, has a hard time and
they're really trying to explain something, but you know, it's just, well, you know what
I'm talking about.
It's like that time with that thing where he did that.
This is really annoying.
I know it's called beating around the bush because you just don't say what you're thinking.
So you don't say something directly.
Now, our next phrase is to take into consideration.
Take something into consideration.
Well this is something that the young man brings up when he's asking for a raise.
He says, you should take into consideration all of these great things I do.
This means when you make your decision, I want you to think about these things.
So consideration means you're thinking when you're trying to make a decision.
To consider.
So to take something into consideration or you can just say to consider.
So I'm interested in buying a new TV, but I have to take into consideration the fact
that I don't have a lot of money.
That means I probably won't get a new TV.
I have to think about these things when I'm making my decision.
And our last phrase for today, towards the end, the boss was a little bit interested
in knowing what happened or which companies were interested in him.
So he said, just out of curiosity.
So this is something we say when we don't need to know something.
It means that we would like to know because we're curious, we're interested, but not because
I need to know right away what companies offer you jobs.
So this is a polite way to ask why someone did something.
So for example, so just out of curiosity, Marco, what kind of shampoo do you use?
That is very interesting knowledge that you want there.
Well, obviously I don't need to know what kind of shampoo Marco uses, but I'm curious
because maybe I'm going to buy a new kind of shampoo.
So you can start your sentence by using this phrase, just out of curiosity.
Just out of curiosity.
It's a great one.
Listen for that again as we listen to today's dialogue one more time, and we'll be back
in a moment to talk about getting a raise.
Sure, come on in.
I won't beat around the bush, sir.
I would like a raise.
I currently have three companies after me, and so I decided to talk to you first.
I understand your position, and I know that the current economic downturn has had a negative
impact on sales, but you must also take into consideration my hard work, proactiveness,
Oh, the electric company, the gas company, and the water company.
So interesting enough, he needed a raise not because three companies wanted to hire him,
but because he needed to pay his bills.
Well, this is funny because he's not talking about companies, that's right, who are offering
him jobs.
He's talking about the gas, the water, the electrical company.
It's a very funny dialogue, but I think asking for a raise is very hard to do because you
know that your boss is worried about money or it's a bad time to ask, but you want to
ask because it's important that you get the right compensation for your work.
And actually, it's important to have a clear objective when you want to ask for a raise.
So more or less what you want to earn, but plausible within the company.
So you're not going to ask for a 100% raise, right?
You can maybe aim for a 5 or 10% and most likely you'll get it if you negotiate properly.
And sometimes a raise isn't just about money.
You can also, like he did, ask for some time off.
So he gets some vacation days or perhaps some training or bonuses or a bonus.
So this all depends on the kind of negotiations that you make, but it's worth it to ask.
So please let us know if you've ever had a good time or a bad time asking for a raise.
It can be a very nerve wracking experience.
I know personally I'm very uncomfortable with it, but we're excited to hear what you have
And if you have any questions or comments, leave them for us on our website, EnglishPod.com.
My name is Catherine and today we have an intermediate level lesson all about cell phones.
We're going to be buying a cell phone or also known as a mobile phone.
So before we jump into the dialogue, let's take a look at a specific type of phone on
Well, the name of this phone is kind of funny.
It's called a smartphone.
It's very popular these days.
Things like the Apple iPhone or the HTC Hero.
These are examples of a smartphone.
So basically a smartphone has additional functions more than just a normal mobile phone.
For example, you can check your email on a smartphone.
So the thing that makes a smartphone different from a normal mobile phone is that it's like
a small computer.
You can do things like Marco said, send emails or take photos, edit photos, use applications,
things like that from your phone.
So we're going to be talking about smartphones.
I accidentally dropped my phone in the toilet.
Well, you've come to the right place.
We have over 100 models of more than 20 leading mobile phone manufacturers.
I don't want it to be too expensive.
Maybe something mid-range.
We have this new HTC smartphone.
It comes with the Android OS so you can download applications.
It also has a built-in camera, MP3 player and touchscreen.
It works on the 3G network so you have fast access to the internet wherever you are.
What about Wi-Fi?
You can access the internet from any hotspot as well as from home.
Is it waterproof?
Now, have you ever done this?
Have you ever dropped your phone in the water?
Have you ever damaged the phone like that?
Luckily, no.
But I have a good friend who dropped his in the toilet and had to buy a new one.
So this is not made up.
It's actually more common than what people think.
But we'll get to that in a bit.
Why don't we take a look at five key words in Language Takeaway.
This first word is very important because in this particular dialogue, we're talking
about the HTC smartphone.
This is a special kind of phone and it has an Android operating system or OS.
So Android is something that Google came up with and they have this operating system that
they're giving away for free.
If you want to use it, you can use it.
You can make a whole new phone using this operating system.
So the operating system like Windows or what's the Mac one called?
Tiger OS.
You have these Linux.
Linux.
These are like the interface that allows you to use your computer and to interact with
it and so they're different for different kinds of computers.
The same is true of a smartphone.
So that's what we're looking at today.
If you see this word Android, it's a proper noun and as Catherine mentioned, it's the
name of the OS or operating system developed by Google.
So we're taking a look at a smartphone that uses the Android OS.
Now this phone not only carried this operating system but also an MP3 player.
An MP3 player is a device that plays songs for you.
So songs can be stored as MP3s.
A good example of an MP3 player is an iPod.
An iPod.
Or and for many of you, you're listening to this podcast as an MP3 file through an MP3
player.
So that's the name.
We usually say MP3.
And another feature of this special smartphone is that you can use it on the 3G network.
What is a 3G network, Marco?
So a 3G network is a third generation network which allows more information to be sent.
So not only can you send voice like a normal cell phone network, but now you can send
pictures or you can download information like for example your email.
So this is a new 3G network.
It allows you to send more information, more data.
3G, third generation.
And in addition to this, our customer wants to know about Wi-Fi.
You hear this a lot when you go to a hotel or a restaurant.
They say we have Wi-Fi access.
And Wi-Fi stands for wireless fidelity.
So it's basically internet that has no wires.
You don't need to connect your computer to anything.
You just log on and use the internet.
So look out for that when you're in a cafe next time.
Do they have Wi-Fi?
Usually there's a sign on the wall.
And finally, this customer wants to know is this great phone waterproof?
What is waterproof?
So if you have a watch for example and you can take this watch into a swimming pool or
the ocean, it means it's waterproof.
So it resists water.
It won't get damaged if it gets wet.
So I could say that I have a waterproof jacket.
So that means that when I go in the rain, my clothes don't get wet because they don't
go inside the fabric.
So there are many things waterproof as watches or waterproof cameras.
I've never really seen a waterproof mobile phone though.
That's a good invention maybe.
That would be.
So those are five key words for language takeaway.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back.
So now we have three phrases for you on Fluency Builder.
This first phrase is a way of expressing something.
So we're going to give you a formula.
The first word is leading.
So leading mobile phone manufacturers.
So when we use the word leading, we're saying that it's leading an industry.
That means the most important manufacturers in a kind of industry.
So it's one of the biggest.
It's one of the best.
And if we want to change the noun, we can say for example, the leading car manufacturer.
So in Japan, I wonder who the leading car manufacturer is.
Is it Toyota?
Toyota.
And we could also say that about clothing.
The leading clothing manufacturer in America is, I have no idea, cotton maybe?
Cotton, right.
So you can use many other nouns.
And well, if you want to drop the manufacturers, you can say the leading brand in cosmetics
or the leading supplier of medical equipment.
So this means the person or the company that's the most important in an industry.
So going back to one of the features of the mobile phone, we talked about the built in
camera.
Now this structure is interesting.
Built in.
Well, we can say that things are built in when they are a part of something else.
For example, a built in camera is a part of a phone.
It's not a camera and a phone, two different devices.
They're put together.
We can also say this about cabinets.
You know, you can buy cabinets and you can put them in your house and keep things in
But we often have built ins.
That means that they're stuck on the wall.
You can't take them away.
So those are called built ins because they're part of the wall.
So built in camera is a part of the phone.
So you can pretty much use this structure with two products that are combined as one.
For example, the cabinets that Catherine mentioned, or if your refrigerator has a television incorporated,
right, you can say this refrigerator comes with a built in television.
Or very common is the laptop with built in speakers.
So that means we don't have to bring speakers with us every time we want to use the laptop.
There's small speakers inside the computer.
And we have one last phrase.
One last phrase.
So that's our phrase.
Oh, before you go, one last thing.
So this is often said when someone's leaving a conversation.
So I'm going to say, okay, Marco, I've got to go run and do something.
I'll see you later.
So one last thing.
So now I'll wait.
So one last thing is a way to say, no, wait, hold on.
I have to tell you one more thing.
So yeah, as you say, you can use it as a fixed phrase.
One last thing or before I go, one last thing.
Can you take out the dog?
One last thing we have to talk about.
And this was our last word.
So why don't we listen to our dialogue for the last time?
It also has a built-in camera, MP3 player, and touch screen.
It works on the 3G network so you have fast access to the Internet wherever you are.
You can access the Internet from any hotspot as well as from home.
And I actually read somewhere that many girls have this accident because they place their
mobile phones in their back pockets.
So when they go to the bathroom, the phone accidentally drops out and falls into the
toilet.
I heard a different explanation for this common problem.
Maybe not very appropriate.
But boys have this problem because they take their phone to the bathroom and they play
with them when they're using the bathroom.
I've also heard this that you're maybe checking your messages or checking your email when
you're in the bathroom and it falls.
Just falls.
So I think boys and girls all have this problem.
Be careful with your phones.
Those smartphones are still pretty expensive.
Yes, they are.
So if you have any questions, any doubts, you can contact us at EnglishPod.com and we'll
That's a wrap for EnglishPod.
My name is Kathryn and today we have an elementary level lesson about food, one of my favorite
things to talk about.
We are going to talk about food but specifically we're going to talk about a family barbecue.
Okay, what is a family barbecue?
Well, I'll just say a few words first.
A barbecue is usually something that we do outside.
We bring food, we play games, maybe have some drinks and a lot of the food is grilled.
So that's what we're talking about today.
We're going to hear this dialogue first and then we'll come back to talk about it.
Is everything ready for the big family barbecue tomorrow?
Yep, the steaks and chicken are marinated and I also bought hamburger buns.
We should also cook a couple dozen hot dogs and kebabs.
Yeah, good idea.
We could put some lawn furniture outside next to the grill.
I also set up the tent outside so we can hide from the sun if it gets too hot.
I asked Grace to bring cups and serviettes as she is also bringing two big coolers for
the beers.
This is going to be a great barbecue.
Oh no, it's raining.
So probably a couple of words you didn't really understand.
So let's take a look at those now in Language Takeaway.
Lots of food words, Marco.
The first one is barbecue.
We were talking about that a minute ago.
A barbecue is something we do usually for a special occasion or for dinner.
It's a summertime thing.
You go outside when it's warm and the entire family comes and we have food.
Sometimes people even bring food.
So usually as you mentioned, it's something that you do a barbecue.
You have a family barbecue.
But it's also a verb.
To barbecue something.
So to cook meat on a barbecue.
So that's cooking meat not in a stove, not with gas.
Usually it's under a fire or very warm intense heat coming from coals.
And so before we cook food, usually before we cook meat on the grill, before we barbecue
it, we have to marinate it.
So in this situation, the steaks and the chicken are already marinated.
So to marinate something or which is a verb or the steaks and chickens are marinated which
is an adjective.
So basically means that you have added spices and maybe some lemon juice, different herbs
or salts to the meats in order to give it flavor before you cook them.
So in Indian cooking for example, you marinate with a yogurt sauce and you leave the meat
in the refrigerator for a whole night.
So marinating or to marinate is a process to give flavor to food.
So we've marinated our food, our chicken, our steaks.
But also we have hamburgers.
So we need hamburger buns.
What are buns?
Buns are pieces of bread that are for special kinds of food.
So you have a hamburger bun.
It's a round piece of bread and the hamburger goes on one piece and under another piece.
A hot dog bun is different.
It's like a piece of bread that's folded and the hot dog goes in the middle.
So bun is a special kind of bread for these kinds of foods.
So remember, if you want to have a hot dog, you need to buy hot dog buns.
So people know already that you're talking about bread.
And if you want to buy a hamburger bread, you say a hamburger bun.
So hamburger buns and hot dog buns.
But after we talk about having the hamburger buns, we discuss how many hot dogs we're going
to cook.
So the person says, we should cook a couple dozen hot dogs.
So a dozen is 12 units of something.
So eggs are sold in dozens.
We buy a dozen eggs.
We buy 12 eggs.
Or you can say half a dozen.
That means 6.
Half of 12.
But a couple dozen is usually around 24, 25.
So a dozen hot dogs and they are also getting kebabs.
What are kebabs?
One of my favorite foods, kebabs are sticks or skewers of meat.
So you have a very thin stick and you put the meat on it and you put that on the grill
and you cook the meat on the grill.
So yeah, those are very common.
For example, in the Middle East, right?
You have kebabs, sticks of meat and also maybe some vegetables put on it and you grill them.
Very flavorful, very tasty meat.
So why don't we listen to our dialogue again and we'll come back shortly to look at some
more words.
The steaks and chicken are marinated and I also bought hamburger buns.
So now why don't we go to a second part of language takeaway and take a look at five
Alright the first word that we're going to look at is lawn furniture.
So we're going to have lawn furniture outside.
Okay so before we even start thinking about food, we have to decide where people will
sit at this barbecue.
And so we have to find out how much lawn furniture we have.
Furniture can be a sofa, a table, a chair.
We have furniture in the house.
But lawn furniture is furniture for the outside.
A lawn is the green grass outside your house.
So it's usually not going to be made out of wood for example because if it rains it might
get ruined right.
So usually it's either plastic or maybe even rock or stone.
Or metal.
So that's what lawn furniture is.
Furniture that is made to be outside in your backyard for example or that sits on your
lawn.
And so we're going to be on the lawn furniture.
We have the special thing for cooking meat outside, the grill.
Okay so we mentioned that you grill chicken or you grill steaks.
But it's also a noun.
A grill.
So a grill, what is that?
A grill is like a stove for the outside but instead of having electricity to make the
fire we have gas or propane.
And this is something that we light on fire and we use coals to keep the insides very
warm.
And so this is just a way to cook meats or even vegetables outside.
Okay perfect.
So that is a grill.
And if you're going to cook foods or vegetables in this way, so you're going to grill them.
And well just in case it gets hot and you want to hide from the sun, we are going to
set up a tent.
Okay a tent, you can sleep in a tent but in this case a tent is just a covering outside.
So maybe some cloth or some fabric that will stand over us when we sit down or want to
be outside.
It's also a way to protect us from the rain.
Alright so as you mentioned a tent is something that you set up temporarily made out of cloth
or plastic to protect you from the sun or rain.
Or if you're going camping you sleep in one.
Alright and now that they have all the food, they need cups and then they mentioned this
strange word, it kind of sounds French, serviettes.
So I do think it comes from the French word.
This is a British way of saying napkins.
So it's like paper for cleaning your hands and cleaning your mouth that you throw away.
Okay so you can say napkins or if you want to sound a little bit more fancier you can
say serviettes.
And speaking of fancy, let's talk about beer.
Where do we keep beer?
It has to stay cold right?
Right so usually you would place it in a refrigerator but if you're outside or you're going camping,
you want to keep them cold or you want to keep something hot.
You place it in a cooler.
Okay so a cooler is a plastic bin or a plastic box that we put all of the ice in and the
drinks so it's not just for beer, it's also for coke and Sprite and all these different
drinks.
Right so it's usually made to keep something cool but as I said if you want to keep something
warm you can also keep it in the cooler.
It keeps the temperature of the foods.
And the nice thing is that it's not electric so you can use it anywhere.
Alright so that's all the words for today.
Why don't we listen to our dialogue for the last time.
We asked Grace to bring cups and serviettes as she is also bringing two big coolers for
So family barbecues and doing these things.
Did you do these when you were young at home?
Do you still like to do it?
I love barbecues.
It's one of my favorite ways to eat food.
The nice thing about a barbecue is you get to sit outside and relax and there's nothing
better than nice fresh grilled meat.
Right, and well you have all your friends over so you're having a couple of beers and
you're having some meat and it's actually a really nice way of just having something
at home with good friends and family, right?
Exactly, and some of the most important barbecues we have are in the summer near July 4th.
And so people like to have July 4th barbecues where you celebrate Independence Day and sit
outside and drink and have hot dogs and hamburgers and macaroni and cheese.
Actually while I was in Chile I noticed that as well near their festivities for their independence
which is September 18th.
A lot of people get together and have barbecues and it's so so popular that pretty much every
house in the neighborhood you can smell somebody barbecuing on the weekend.
You're making me so hungry.
Alright guys so if you have any questions, any doubts or if it's common for you guys
to barbecue back home then why don't you send us a couple of comments at EnglishPod.com
My name is Catherine and today we're talking about something that has always been very
confusing for me.
For me as well.
I don't understand very well what this is about.
We're going to be talking about time zones and a little bit about daylight savings time.
Before we get started though, let's take a look at this phrase in today's vocabulary
All right, so the phrase is daylight savings time.
Okay, so we're trying to save daylight pretty much.
So this is the time of year when we change our clocks.
That means in the fall there's a special day and everyone has it on their calendar and
we change the clocks.
We put them back one hour.
So if it was eight o'clock now it's seven o'clock.
Okay, so everything is earlier, starts earlier.
And that's basically to take advantage of the daylight, right?
That's why it's called daylight savings time.
And so that's for the winter and then when the winter's past we change the clocks again.
We have the spring daylight savings where we change our clocks ahead.
So it sounds kind of complicated.
Many countries don't have daylight savings time.
They don't change their clocks at all.
But we're going to be talking about this in a little bit more so why don't we listen to
our dialogue for the first time.
Did you set your clock forward for daylight savings time?
Why do we have to do that?
Well, at the start of the spring we usually have more daylight in the mornings and less
in the afternoon.
This is basically due to our position on the planet and the rotation of the Earth.
In any case, to take better advantage of the daylight available we compensate by moving
our clocks forward one hour.
I never understood things like this such as GMT.
I never know what time zone we are in or when to change my clock.
That just stands for Greenwich Mean Time.
Here in California we're in Pacific Standard Time.
That is eight time zones west of Greenwich.
Remember when we were in Beijing?
Well, then we were in China Standard Time and that's eight time zones east of Greenwich.
That's why it was so weird traveling from Beijing to LA because of the huge time difference.
Even though we left Beijing at noon and flew for more than eight hours, we still arrived
in LA the same day at noon.
It's like we went back in time.
So that was a pretty clear explanation of why we do these things.
But maybe there are a couple of words that you didn't understand.
Well, Marco, what you were hinting at before, this idea that we have shorter days in the
winter and longer days in the summer has to do with the rotation of the Earth.
So the rotation of the Earth is our first phrase.
So the Earth rotates.
What does that mean if it rotates?
Means to spin around.
But not just to spin around anywhere.
It means that if you draw a line through the middle of something, it never leaves that
It just kind of turns.
So it's spinning.
Like the wheels on a car.
They rotate.
That means they go around but they are fixed to the car.
So this is one of the reasons why we need to compensate our clocks because of the rotation
of the Earth.
And that's our next word, to compensate.
This is a verb, to compensate.
And it's often used with money but it can be used with time as well.
Time or sunlight.
So with money you'd say, I paid him a hundred dollars but I owed him a hundred fifty.
So I'm going to compensate him for the extra fifty.
Means I'm going to fix it.
So to compensate would be the verb and compensation would be the noun.
Now in this case we're talking about time.
So how can we compensate time?
Well that means that if we have lost an hour because we changed the clocks, we have to
compensate.
We have to try and gain that hour back.
And so that's why in the spring, after the days start to get longer and longer, we have
to compensate for that by changing the clocks again.
So we're compensating time.
Now related to daylight savings and this whole time thing is time zones.
We have time zones all over the Earth.
And you've probably noticed this if you've traveled.
You have to change your clocks or many times you see in hotels what time it is in London,
in Hong Kong, in Berlin, etc.
And this makes a lot of sense because like we said, the Earth is rotating and so if it's
daylight in Moscow and it's nighttime in New York, obviously it's not the same time.
So to compensate for this difference, we have different time zones.
And each time zone is pretty much an hour or so, you know, half an hour different from
the next one.
So most countries actually have different time zones throughout their country unless
they're small that they don't really need to compensate any change.
Or for example, China, just to unify everything, it's a big country but they have one time
zone.
It's China standard time.
But in the United States, we have four time zones.
So that's time zone.
And the other thing related to time zone is time difference.
Okay, well think about math here.
Difference is a word that we use in math.
And a time difference is the amount of time, that means how many hours there are between
one time zone and another time zone.
So for example, Beijing and New York City.
These are very, very far away from each other.
If it's day in New York, it's night in Beijing.
So that means if it's seven in the morning in Beijing, it's probably around seven at
night in New York.
So the time difference would be more or less 12 hours.
But when it's daylight savings time, it's 13.
So be careful.
I think that's pretty clear.
I think we should go back and listen to our dialogue again.
And we'll be back soon with Fluency Builder.
Well, at the start of the spring, we usually have more daylight in the mornings and less
This is basically due to our position on the planet and the rotation of the earth.
In any case, to take better advantage of the daylight available, we compensate by moving
I never understood things like this, such as GMT.
Here in California, we're in Pacific Standard Time.
Well, then we were in China Standard Time, and that's eight time zones east of Greenwich.
That's why it was so weird traveling from Beijing to LA, because of the huge time difference.
Now let's take a look at three key phrases in Fluency Builder.
Let's go back to the beginning of this dialogue.
The person who's explaining all of these interesting things is saying that, well, in any case,
to take better advantage of the daylight available, we compensate by moving our clocks forward
one hour.
This is an important phrase you could say to take better advantage of or to take advantage
of.
Let's talk about this.
To take advantage of something.
So to take advantage of something is to use it efficiently, right?
Or to take better advantage.
So for example, if you drive to work every day and your neighbor drives to work every
day and you work at the same place, you could take better advantage of your car and the
cost by sharing the same car to work.
Or when people started to use computers, you could say, well, they were taking better advantage
of their time by speeding things up, by making things faster with the computers.
Or many mothers say, take better advantage of your time and read something instead of
playing those video games.
So it means, like you said, to be more efficient, to do useful or important things.
And now when we talked about what daylight savings time means or GMT, what that stands
for.
This is an interesting phrase.
It stands for.
Well, think about it as a picture.
So if something stands for something else, that means the original thing, it's not there
And so in words and phrases like GMT, GMT doesn't mean anything by itself.
But the G stands for something, the M stands for something.
So this is an acronym that stands for, that represents three big long words.
Greenwich, meantime.
So we use this a lot when we are defining words or when we are defining an acronym like
GMT stands for Greenwich, meantime.
Or for example, USA stands for United States of America.
Or we can even say someone's name stands for something.
So Marco, what is the M in your last name stand for?
So you're Marco M. What does the M stand for?
And then I would say, well, it stands for Mejia.
Your last name.
And then we use this when you see things that you don't understand, maybe an acronym or
an abbreviation.
Like does Cathy stand for Catherine?
Yes, Cathy stands for Catherine.
It's a short version of Catherine.
And well now talking a little bit more about time, you've maybe seen the movie Back to
the Future and this is what it's all about, to go back in time.
To go back in time.
So we went back in time.
This is what the person says about the flight from Beijing to LA.
What's interesting is that to go back in time is kind of a fixed phrase.
We always say it like this.
So we could say, if you went back in time, where would you go?
What time?
What place?
So to go back in time, you usually use it like this.
Now, what if I wanted to say to go into the future?
Could you say, go forward in time?
You could go forward in time or you could go into the future.
Go into the future.
So remember, if you want to talk about going back in time, it's usually traveling to the
So that's all the phrases we have.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue for the very last time.
Now, this is actually something that really does happen, right?
If you take off in an airplane from Beijing, you fly for a certain amount of hours and
you reach California and it's still the same time.
You reach it in the same day.
It's very strange.
The same thing happens to me when I go home.
I leave Shanghai and I arrive in Chicago and I arrive at the exact same time I left on
the same day.
It's like time never passed.
It's the longest day of your entire life, because it's not 24 hours.
The flight is 14 hours.
It's really 24, 38 hours long, right?
It's really intense and exhausting.
Then what happens is when you do the opposite.
You go from Chicago to Shanghai, then you go into the future pretty much, right?
Because you left on a Sunday, but you arrive on a Tuesday.
Or in my case, yeah, you leave on a Sunday and you'd arrive on a Monday and you lose
half a day of your life.
You're just sitting there and all of a sudden it goes past you.
So it all evens out in the end.
So when you go back or when you come, it all evens out.
You recover, you get those hours of your life back pretty much.
They're not gone forever.
So if you guys have any questions, any doubts, you can send us an email at EnglishPod at
PraxisLanguage.com or come to our website EnglishPod.com.
Ask away and until next time everyone.
My name is Katherine and today we have a very weather focused lesson.
It's all about all the horrible things that can happen to you with the weather.
So as you know, there are many different types of weather and not only rain or sunshine but
many other phenomena.
So we're going to take a look at some of those but before we go into it, let's take a look
at one word on Vocabulary Preview.
Okay, so we're talking about extreme weather today.
That's not rain or drizzle or sunshine.
We're talking about really interesting, unique and sometimes devastating things that can
happen.
So today's vocabulary word is Armageddon.
Alright, so Armageddon.
Now you've probably seen the movie Armageddon.
So what does this word mean?
Okay, so this word is a reference to the end of the world.
It means the time when the world will end because of a great catastrophe or a great
disaster.
Okay, so everyone talks about Armageddon.
It's mentioned in the Bible and as you say, it's when the world stops existing.
So think about that one as we listen to today's dialogue.
We will be back in a minute to talk about what's going on.
Those are the headlines for today and now for the International Weather Report with
Mike Sanderson.
Thank you, Bob.
This past week has been the beginning of Armageddon for many as a series of unprecedented meteorological
events occurred around the world.
In Switzerland, a major avalanche was reported in the Alps.
Fortunately, no one was injured.
Due to the extreme cold this winter, a blizzard has struck the U.S. Midwest, causing classes
in schools and universities to be temporarily canceled.
Moving on to Latin America, Ecuador has suffered a six-month drought that has not only affected
farming but has also forced the closure of the hydroelectric power plant that provides
electricity for the entire country.
In Chile, a major earthquake that registered 7.5 on the Richter scale struck the southern
region.
Losses are reported to be in the billions.
Authorities have not yet released an official statement.
Not a great week for the world.
Any good news?
I'm afraid not, Bob.
One of the major volcanoes in Mexico has erupted, causing major floods and landslides in the
Meanwhile, Mexico's coast has been hit by Hurricane Liliana and officials say that
all the seismic activity leads them to believe that a tsunami may hit Central America, affecting
Honduras, Guatemala, and Panama.
That's all the news we have for today, but stay tuned for updates on the 6 o'clock news.
Back to you, Bob.
And well, this weather report is not really far from the truth.
I mean, this kind of stuff happens every day all over the world, right?
That's correct.
And unfortunately, it's been happening very frequently in the past couple months.
We've heard of a lot of earthquakes and volcanoes and things like that.
So this is very valuable stuff when you're trying to talk about current events as well.
So why don't we start now analyzing a couple of different words and phrases on Language
Well, the first vocabulary item we have here is meteorological event.
It's a real mouthful.
It's a long word.
Meteorological.
So for example, meteorological means having to do with the weather, something that's related
to the weather.
So a meteorological event could be rain, snow.
So it has to do with meteorology.
Meteorology is the study of the weather.
And someone who does this is a meteorologist.
So usually the weathermen that you see on TV, they're meteorologists.
So let's go now to Marco, our resident meteorologist.
Our resident meteorologist.
So meteorological events.
Now moving on, one of the first events that we're going to look at is an avalanche.
Avalanche.
And avalanche has to do with snow.
This means that when a mountain that has a lot of snow on it, maybe part of that snow
breaks off and starts to roll down, you have a wall of snow that comes down.
That's an avalanche.
So you could say, avalanche.
When the snow comes down.
And it's actually very dangerous because people can get buried under the snow.
Another event that has to do with snow is a blizzard.
A blizzard is different from an avalanche because an avalanche, maybe it's not snowing.
The snow just falls.
But in a blizzard, you're talking about a storm of snow.
But it's like a lot of snow coming down from the sky.
So much snow that you probably can't see anything.
There's just white everywhere.
So that's a blizzard.
A lot of, lot of snow coming down from the sky.
Now moving on, the opposite of snow and things being wet is we have a drought.
Yeah, this is the opposite of wet actually.
So there's no rain in a drought.
A drought means that things are very dry.
The land is very dry.
So it's a period of time that there's no snow, there's no water, there's no rain, there's
It's very, very dry.
We're going through a drought.
Correct.
And the reason the problem with a drought is very dangerous is because people cannot
grow food in a drought.
And so lots of people starve when this happens.
So you got to watch out for a drought.
Now, in this case, it not only affected farming, but also we have a hydroelectric power plant
that can't work, obviously, because there's no water.
So hydro means water.
Hydroelectric means electricity that is generated by flowing water.
Well, a mill, something that turns water on a river is a way to get power from water.
But a hydroelectric project that can give you electricity is maybe like a dam or an
electric mill.
So usually you have these on rivers and they just take advantage of the flowing of water
to turn some huge turbines and generate power.
So that's all we have for now.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue again?
And we'll be back shortly to take a look at some more words.
Those are the headlines for today.
And now for the International Weather Report with Mike Sanderson.
Meanwhile, Mexico's coast has been hit by Hurricane Liliana, and officials say that
Honduras, Guatemala and Panama.
Well, a word that many people are unfortunately familiar with is Richter or Richter scale.
And now this is something that a lot of people are talking about right now because of the
earthquake in Sichuan, China last year and the earthquake in Haiti very recently.
And so the Richter scale, that's a big R because it's a proper name, is a way for us to determine
how severe, how big the earthquake was.
So people talk about a 6.0, a 7.1.
So that's on the Richter scale.
The lowest is zero and the highest is 10, correct?
But 10 is like impossible, apparently.
Apparently.
And a lot of them are actually underwater, but the very serious ones are maybe 8.0, 7.0.
So Richter scale.
Now we talked about earthquakes.
We talked about snowing.
Now let's talk about a volcano.
A volcano in Mexico has erupted.
So we've got two words here, volcano.
A volcano is a mountain that has an opening in the center where lava from the middle of
the earth, the center of the earth, can come out.
So it's very dangerous, obviously, because it's very hot.
But a volcano doesn't open.
It erupts.
So the verb here that we use with a volcano is to erupt.
Okay, so it doesn't explode, a volcano erupts.
That means to open violently, very quickly.
So when this happens, obviously you have a lot of lava, you have maybe snow that melts,
and you have floods and landslides.
Okay, landslides.
A landslide is one word, but it's made up of two words that you probably already know.
So land, obviously it's the ground and things like that, the earth.
But a slide is to move down across the ground.
And so a landslide happens when you've got something like lava or water that's pushing
all of the earth, all of the ground down.
And it's destroying houses and trees and land, and it's very, very destructive.
So you usually see this that happens on the side of mountains, on the side of hills, where
all that land starts to slide down or to go down.
And it's very similar to an avalanche, right?
But instead of snow falling down, it's land.
Mud and land.
Mud, yeah.
So we have a landslide.
And because of all the eruptions and the earthquakes, they said that they have a lot of seismic activity.
This word seismic is something that I've heard a lot recently in movies, like 2012.
So seismic means having to do with the movement of the plates under the earth's crust.
So the earth is not everything that we see.
It's also activity, things happening underneath the ground.
And so underneath the ground, we have these big plates.
And seismic activity is what happens when these kind of things start to move.
Activity is movement.
And so seismic activity refers to earthquakes and volcanoes, things that are changing under
the ground that will affect us.
So that's seismic activity.
It's pronounced seismic, right?
Seismic.
And because of all this activity, people say that they may have a tsunami.
Well, this doesn't sound very English, does it?
I know, tsunami.
And actually, if you see the spelling, it's with a T, T-S.
I think it's a Japanese word, but I'm not positive.
I think so, too.
Tsunami is the name that we give to a giant tidal wave.
So that's a wave of water in the ocean that's very, very dangerous because it can get to
100, 200 feet tall.
And this means that when it comes down, it can destroy houses, cities, cars, things like
And there was a very, very famous tsunami in Southeast Asia in 2004.
Do you remember that?
Yeah, in Indonesia, right?
That's right, in Indonesia and Thailand and Vietnam.
Yeah, it was intense.
It was big.
And it was also because of an earthquake, right?
All these earthquakes, they move the earth around.
And then all of a sudden, the reaction is that there's water that moves.
And the water then turned into a wave.
Yeah, just imagine what happens if you have a bucket of water and then you start moving
the bucket just a little bit.
You see how water starts to splat all over the place.
All right, so tsunami was our last word for today.
Why don't we listen to our dialogue again and we'll be back shortly.
This past week has been the beginning of Armageddon for many, as a series of unprecedented meteorological
That's all the news we have for today, but stay tuned for updates on The 6 O'Clock News.
So Marco, these are all pretty terrifying.
Have you ever experienced a meteorological event like one of the ones that we talked
about today?
I've actually lived through like three earthquakes, like pretty big ones.
Plus, because you used to live in Los Angeles.
So you get them all the time in LA.
Apart from that, I actually, I've seen a volcano erupt a couple of times because, you know,
Ecuador is a, is, is part of the volcano alley, right?
It's all the Andes mountains and it's part of the circle of fire, what they call.
So we have a couple of different active volcanoes and from time to time they will start to smoke
or to spew some lava, but nothing major.
Like there hasn't been a major catastrophe with the volcanoes.
Hopefully it won't either.
Well, and these days they have a lot of equipment, seismic equipment and meteorological equipment
that can help meteorologists to determine when things will happen, like when a volcano
will erupt or if there will be an earthquake because they can study the tremors in the
ground.
And I think probably the most famous volcano is, I think it was in Italy, right?
Mount Vesuvius.
And it was Mount Vesuvius in Naples, which famously destroyed a number of cities in this
ancient civilization and ancient Roman times.
And what's amazing is that they still have a lot of the, the buildings underground under
the ash because when all the ash settled, it preserved the bodies like a mummy.
And so you can see the bodies and the things that they, you know, their jewelry and their
And it's fascinating because it's this horrible, horrible natural disaster actually helped
us in the future learn about this old civilization.
It's crazy.
Actually in Ecuador you can see a huge hole that has like a lake in the middle and you're
like, oh wow, that's beautiful.
But that's actually caused because the entire mountain just kind of blew the top off like
the cone because of this major eruption.
So you can just imagine how powerful these eruptions are.
I can just imagine what it would have been like Mount Vesuvius.
But anyway, on a brighter note, if you have any questions, any comments or any stories
of your own, maybe you've, you've lived through a typhoon, a hurricane or tornado, you can
come to our website, EnglishPod.com.
My name is Catherine and today we're talking about a dream home.
So building the home of your dreams.
That's right and this lesson today is advanced so it might be a little bit hard and we're
going to be taking a look at not only some vocabulary related to your home or decorations
and stuff but also how to treat your loved one in a nice way or little nicknames.
Cute names, pet names.
So stay tuned.
We'll be talking about very specific things having to do with building a home and home
remodeling.
And so we'll hear this dialogue one time but when we're back in just a minute here we'll
be talking about what those things mean.
Mr. and Mrs. Robinson, let's get straight to it.
You have saved up your money for years and are now ready to build your dream home.
What did you have in mind?
A suburban bungalow straight out of the 60s.
A perfect lawn with minimal landscaping, brick patio in the backyard with an old fashioned
grill, quaint lawn furniture and a swimming pool.
A two car carport, pastel siding and a gable roof completed with white shutters and a white
picket fence.
Uh, honey?
In the living room we would have moss green rugs and a fireplace with a stone mantle and
wood paneling on the walls.
In the kitchen the cupboards would be a pale yellow and we would have a turquoise metal
oven and vinyl flooring.
Um, sweetie?
But I was thinking of more a modern style house.
An open concept house all glass, wood, metal and concrete.
But sweetums, there's always a lot of wasted space in those kinds of homes.
Besides it's just a fad.
It doesn't have the homey feeling the old homes do.
Sweetie pie, it's not a lot of wasted space.
It is relaxing and the house would be eco-friendly with an in-floor heating system and designed
to retain the heat of the sun in the winter and keep the house cool in the summer.
We would have solar panels on the roof.
Do you know how much those things cost?
What about your vintage furniture, dearest?
And instead of a lawn, which is also a lot of wasted space and would require environmentally
harmful pesticides, we would have a fish pond in the backyard and a garden that would cover
the whole yard so we could grow our own food.
But buttercup, I thought you always said that you loved visiting your grandmother's house.
And I thought you, Mr. Scientist, were all up on saving the planet with your technological
advancement.
Um, well, I am just going to get some coffee while you two keep discussing.
So apparently the couple can't seem to agree.
He wants something different than what she does and in the end I think they were a little
bit irritated with each other.
Doesn't this always happen though?
I mean my dream home is probably not your dream home.
I don't know, it's weird.
But I mean you would probably have to, I don't know, compensate somehow or...
Well that's the beauty of compromise I think.
You can go back and forth but with your loved one or your spouse you have to make some decisions
about what you want and what they want.
All you need to do is give a guy his own room in which he can decorate and do whatever he
wants with it.
That's all you need.
You mean you.
No, no, not me.
You want to decorate the house in any way you want, fine.
But just give us one room, you know, like five meters by five meters where we can put
anything we want.
A beer cooler, a TV, a PS3, a sound system, and a couple guitars.
Yeah, probably, yeah, yeah.
That's enough.
You described it.
I've been to your house, I know.
Anyway, we've got a lot of great words here in Language Takeaway so let's take a peek
at some of those.
So the first word that we have or it's actually a concept, minimal landscaping.
Okay, so minimal is a style, minimalist actually.
And minimal landscaping is this kind of style of, well, designing your lawn or your garden.
So minimal means not having adornments or decorations.
So it's kind of like the less is more type thing.
So minimal architecture could be very simple, lots of clean lines, not much decoration.
It's the opposite of something that's baroque and highly ornamented.
And I don't like that.
I'm into minimal.
All right, minimalist.
Anyways, we have minimal landscaping.
And while he's talking about his patio and an old fashioned grill, and he said quaint
lawn furniture.
Quaint is sometimes, well, it's usually kind of a bad thing.
We say something is quaint in the way of saying that it's cute, but we don't really like it
because it's maybe old fashioned or kind of old style.
So oh, isn't that quaint?
It's something that people from the city often say about people in the country, at least
in America.
So, oh, because you know, I went to school on the East Coast and I'm from the Midwest.
So people on the East Coast would say, oh, your house is so quaint, small and cute and
old fashioned because they live in a big fancy New York apartment or whatever.
So quaint is usually something that's not the nicest.
So he's looking for some lawn furniture that's not like plastic or new.
It's more like old fashioned, maybe wood.
And kind of traditional and not fancy.
Kind of simple.
Now, he's also talking about the house and he wants, well, a two carport, pastel siding
and a gable roof.
So now we know what a roof is, but what is a gable roof?
A gable is a thing, right?
And it's almost like an extension of the roof in certain parts.
For example, on a traditional Cape Cod style house, you have windows in the front that
they're not a part of the roof.
They're an extension.
They're kind of popping out like eyes.
They're coming out like eyes.
And so the roof, obviously you need a roof on top of those windows.
So that kind of roof, that little extension, that's called a gable.
And so there's a wonderful book that's famous in American history called The House of Seven
Gables.
That means that on this roof of the house, there are seven different parts that come
Seven gables.
It's very unique.
Those houses usually look a little bit scary.
Victorian and imposing.
So you have a gable roof.
Now you have shutters and a white picket fence.
This is typical.
Everyone talks about a white picket fence around their house.
There was even a TV show in America years ago called Picket Fences.
And I think a picket fence is kind of this ideal in American culture about having your
own home in the suburbs and having your own space.
And so around your yard, around your garden, you have this white picket fence.
And so a picket is, I think, the pointed part.
So a picket fence is thin pieces of wood that stand in the ground and are connected to protect
your property from other people coming inside.
So that's a white picket fence.
Usually in movies or in TV shows, they talk about having their own little house with their
dog and a white picket fence.
Two kids, two cars.
And a white picket fence.
So now the woman argued that she wanted something a little bit more modern.
And well, the guy said, you know what?
It's just wasted space.
And those types of homes are just a fad.
A fad.
So a fad is something that is passing.
It's something that's popular for a short time, but then it goes away.
It's not popular anymore.
For example, I think for a while, remember those shoes that used to have little red lights
in the back and the heel?
LA lights.
Those were a fad.
It was really popular for like a year.
Everyone had them, everyone wore them, and then they just went away.
One of my favorite fads of the 1980s were those shirts that would change color if the
room temperature changed color.
So if you go outside and it's hot, they would become bright pink.
But if you're in a cold room, they would go blue and green.
It was really fun, but they're definitely out of fashion these days.
Yeah, I don't think they wear them anymore.
So that's a fad.
Something that's temporary.
It's popular for a while.
So he called her house a fad and she says, well, what about your house?
All this vintage furniture.
What's vintage?
Vintage?
Well, some people think that vintage is a fad.
A lot of people really enjoy buying vintage furniture or vintage clothing.
Vintage means old.
Old.
It's a nice way of saying old or like a nice or cool way of saying old.
So it's almost like, for example, right now, 1940s and 50s clothes are very popular.
A lot of girls are into this kind of style.
So it's called vintage clothing because it's not from today's styles.
It's an old style.
Or you could even call those big flowing dresses from the 1970s vintage clothing.
So vintage furniture would be furniture that comes from a different time, a different era,
and it's popular now.
They're popular now.
Or people like to buy them now.
So they're special because they come from a different time.
So those are the words that we have for today on Language Takeaway.
Why don't we move on now to some pet names or some sweet ways that you can call your
loved ones on Fluency Builder.
So the reason this dialogue is very funny is because we have these two people who are
clearly in disagreement about the kinds of furniture and house they want, but they're
being so nice to each other.
They have these cute names for each other.
So it's really funny.
It almost seems like they're newlyweds, but apparently they've been saving up their entire
So maybe they're just one of those really loving couples.
Oh, Sweetums, Cutie Pie, Cutie.
So that's the first one.
Sweetums.
So obviously the main part of this word is sweet.
Sweetum, Sweetums.
And this is a way to say, hey, sweetie.
So you can say sweetie or sweetums.
So that's a nice way of saying somebody.
Or you can go sweetie pie.
Sweetie pie.
So pie is a food.
It's like a dessert.
Pie is sweet.
It's a sweet.
So sweetie pie.
Or you could say honey pie.
Honey pie, sweetie pie.
So these are all cute.
And the nice thing about these kind of pet names, these cute names, is you can change
them if you want and they're yours.
So you could say honey pie, sugar bun.
They're silly, but there's no real rule.
But these are the most common.
Sweetums and sweetie pie.
Now, moving on to something a little bit maybe more formal.
Dearest.
This makes me think of my grandparents.
So dearest comes from dear.
Dearest is the most dear.
So someone who's the most important to you.
And so you could say mummy dearest, mother dearest.
You heard that somewhere?
Do people call their mothers like mother dearest?
Mother dearest.
No, it's very 1930s.
I'm so arrogant.
Well, it's an old time thing.
We do not say this anymore, but you can say, you know, dearest, would you mind moving the
car?
I like the accent.
You're kind of like English.
And the last one, buttercup.
This is really popular.
It's really popular.
And you've heard this in a song before.
You want to sing the song?
No, you sing the song.
Why do you build me up?
Buttercup, baby.
So that was in a lot of movies.
The word is buttercup.
Also in the movie, the princess bride was the character of Princess Buttercup.
And so this is a sweet, you know, obviously a sweet thing.
I think a buttercup is a flower.
And so these are all words you can use, names you could use with men and women, but buttercup
is mostly women.
I think the other ones are more general.
But do you think like, do guys say to their loved ones like, sweetum, sweetie pie?
So I guess guys, if you want to be really sweet and you want to win over the hearts
of the ladies, you can use these words as well.
Another popular one is babe, which is more of a young person thing to say.
Yeah, I think it's more modern as well.
Honey or babe?
Baby.
You're verging on not so sweet.
Yeah, but like, hey, baby, how are you?
It's like, nice.
But not like, hey, baby.
Well, we're going to leave you with that thought and go listen to this dialogue one more time.
We'll be back in a moment.
A perfect lawn with minimal landscaping, a brick patio in the backyard with an old-fashioned
grill, quaint lawn furniture, and a swimming pool.
A two-car carport, pastel siding, and a gable roof, completed with white shutters and a
white picket fence.
In the living room, we would have moss green rugs and a fireplace with a stone mantle and
In the kitchen, the cupboards would be a pale yellow, and we would have a turquoise metal
Um, sweetie, but I was thinking of more a modern-style house, an open-concept house
all glass, wood, metal, and concrete.
Besides, it's just a fad.
It is relaxing, and the house would be eco-friendly with an in-floor heating system and designed
But Buttercup, I thought you always said that you loved visiting your grandmother's house.
advancements.
So apart from this decorations and stuff, do you agree with the vintage home, the more
like minimalist thing, or do you like the open concept one, the bigger one?
I love the look of minimalism, but as a place to live, it's not comfortable.
And so when I think of an aesthetic that I like, a look that I like, I really like kind
of dark wood, velvety, 19th century kind of, I think of old Vienna.
You like Castle Dracula.
No, not dark.
I like things to be open.
And I like a lot of natural light, but I also like oversized kind of heavy furniture and
really luscious fabrics and things like that.
So that's my...
I'm actually completely different because I do like this open concept.
I like those houses that, I like the way they look inside as well as outside when they're
kind of squared, big windows, clean lines.
Inside is like, for example, in the kitchen you have polished aluminum or polished steel
furniture in the kitchen, as well as a lot of white and red or black, especially.
I kind of like that kind of open spaces.
Primary colors.
Flat screen TVs on the wall and stuff like that.
Remote controls.
Ikea lamps.
Yeah, you know, like those remote controls where you can open your curtains, your TV
and the lights all at the same time.
I kind of like that stuff.
Well, let us know what you guys like because everyone has their own opinion on what a beautiful
house is.
And if you have any pictures, feel free to share them with us on our website, EnglishPod.com.
language
My name is Catherine and today we're talking about one of our favorite subjects, food.
That's right and on this occasion we are going to talk about Chinese food, specifically
stir fry.
This is a common dish in America and all over the world thanks to the many Cantonese people
who came over from Hong Kong or southern China and brought these delicious foods to our cities.
So this is a very popular dish you'll be learning more about.
So let's jump right in and listen to today's dialogue and don't be worried if you don't
Oh man, I had the best supper last night.
My wife made a stir fry and it was amazing.
I love stir fry.
Crispy bite-sized vegetables covered in a mixture of soy sauce and oyster sauce, wilted
greens and fresh bean sprouts.
Throw in some onion and garlic and ginger.
Mmm, it's almost lunch time.
I would die for a plate of stir fry right now.
Well, you can keep the vegetables.
I'll take the meat.
The stir fry my wife made was really hearty with chunks of beef and slivers of bell peppers
and onion.
You call that a stir fry?
More meat than vegetables?
It's the worst insult you could throw at a Chinese stir fry.
What a disgrace to the wok she fried it in.
What you had is equivalent to a fajita without the wrap.
So you probably heard a lot of different vegetables and ingredients in this dish.
So why don't we take a look at some of those now in Language Takeaway.
The first two phrases that we have actually, they're not words, they're phrases, are the
names of sauces that are very, very important to Chinese food.
The first one is soy sauce.
Okay, soy sauce.
And it's this black sauce, right?
Very salty.
And it's made from?
Soy beans.
Soy beans, okay.
Soy.
So soy is a bean, a vegetable product.
But soy sauce is a thin, black, salty sauce.
Okay, and it's very, very common to use it with Chinese dishes especially.
It's very related.
You usually have sushi with soy sauce.
Exactly, so Japanese food uses a lot of this too.
Alright and the other sauce that's not very common in our countries is oyster sauce.
Okay, an oyster is an animal that lives in the sea.
It lives in a shell and we often eat oysters as a dish.
But oyster sauce is stinky, thick, dark sauce that is very popular in Southeast Asian, so
Vietnamese food as well, and Chinese food.
Okay, so it's part of the ingredients of Chinese food.
It's really good.
It smells terrible.
It's stinky.
But when you mix it with food and you cook it, it smells, it adds a very, very good flavor.
Alright, so that's the sauces.
Now apart from sauces, we have some vegetables and some of those are bean sprouts.
Bean sprouts are very common vegetables, especially in Asian food.
So you see a lot of these.
They're usually almost white, almost clear and they're crunchy and they have a little
green part at the end.
Right, so they're like little straws with a little green point at the end.
So usually those go into your dish at the very end because they cook quickly.
Bean sprouts.
Now if you're cooking stir-fry, what you need is the correct tools and the main tool that
you need is a wok.
So a wok is actually a word that we take from, I think, Cantonese.
I'm not positive.
I don't speak Cantonese.
But in English, we normally say frying pan.
But this is a special Asian frying pan that's very, very large and very thin.
So foods cook quickly in a wok.
It's not like the other pans where it has a big flat part.
It's very, very round all over.
It's almost like a bowl that sits on your stove and you cook quickly in a wok.
So that's a wok.
Well, the guy compared his stir-fry to a fajita.
Now fajita, that's not Chinese.
And it's not English.
Well, it is English now.
It's actually the name of a food from Latin America.
So South America and Mexico and Central America, I think more Mexican than anything.
And it's like slivers of meat, so thin strips of meat and vegetables that you eat in a tortilla
bread.
A tortilla is like very thin corn or flour pancake.
So that's a fajita.
It's kind of, you've probably seen it, a fajita or maybe what's commonly known as well as
a burrito, which actually is also an American invention.
I don't think that exists in Mexico.
No, but they are delicious.
I think the word is Tex-Mex, Texas Mexican.
So Tex-Mex.
So that's what we have for you on Language Takeaway.
Why don't we go back to our dialogue, listen to it again, and we'll be back shortly.
My wife made a stir-fry and it was amazing.
I love stir-fry, crispy bite-sized vegetables covered in a mixture of soy sauce and oyster
sauce, wilted greens and fresh bean sprouts, throw in some onion and garlic and ginger.
It's almost lunchtime.
I would die for a plate of stir-fry right now.
The stir-fry my wife made was really hearty with chunks of beef and slivers of bell peppers
You call that a stir-fry?
That's the worst insult you could throw at a Chinese stir-fry.
So now I think we should take a look at some of those phrases that were used in this dialogue
The first phrase we have in Fluency Builder is a phrase that you will hear very often
when you watch cooking shows.
So this is a term we say throw in, to throw in.
Okay, so throw in some vegetables or throw in some onion and garlic.
And that means to just put it into the pan, put it into the pot.
That's right, but it's very general or casual or easy.
You just add some.
If you want to be specific, we can say, please add one cup chopped onion.
One cup of chopped onion.
But here, throw in just means add casually.
Okay, add some onion.
So we throw in all these ingredients and it sounds so delicious that the guy says, I would
die for a plate of stir-fry right about now.
So that means he wants some stir-fry.
I would die for is a good thing.
It's a way to say I really want something.
It's an exaggeration.
It's not like you would actually die for it or you are dying to eat it.
It's just that it's an exaggeration means that you really, really want it.
I would die for a new car.
My car is old and it never really works.
All right, so you really want a new car.
Okay, and well, the guy obviously didn't really like what he was talking about and how he
cooked this stir-fry and he said, what a disgrace to the wok she fried it in.
Okay, this is a way to say that something is bad.
It's embarrassing.
So we can say that this food is a disgrace to Chinese food because Chinese food is one
way but this doesn't even look like Chinese food.
So a disgrace, a disgrace.
So the word disgrace, it means that something is bad.
Or embarrassing to something else.
So a parent can say you're a disgrace to this family.
That means this family has a good reputation but what you did, what you do, these are bad
They make us look bad.
They are embarrassing.
They are embarrassing to us.
This is a disgrace.
Okay, a disgrace, very good.
A strong phrase and you can use it if you ever want to talk about someone or something
in this way.
But remember, it is pretty strong.
If you say somebody is a disgrace, it's pretty insulting.
It's hurtful.
Okay, so why don't we listen to our dialogue for one last time and we'll be back.
Crispy bite-sized vegetables covered in a mixture of soy sauce and oyster sauce.
Wilted greens and fresh bean sprouts.
Meat?
That's the worst insult you could throw at a Chinese stir fry.
Alright so, talking about Chinese food, there are a lot of American inventions around Chinese
food as well, not only Mexican food.
For example, it's very popular this dish, chopped suey.
That's right, chopped suey.
And I think I read somewhere that chopped suey is actually, might have been a Cantonese
dish that came from all of the leftovers and garbage in the kitchen.
You would just fry it together and it was a cheap, easy meal.
So, chopped suey.
It's kind of like an English, it's like a pigeon English.
And well, this dish is basically that, right?
It's just a lot of meat chunks mixed with some vegetables and you have some chopped
suey.
And there's also this other thing that's very common.
People think about fortune cookies.
You think of Chinese restaurants and Chinese food, you think of fortune cookies.
That's right, but they don't have fortune cookies in China.
No, they don't.
One of my biggest disappointments.
So fortune cookie is a small cookie with a message inside.
So you have a piece of paper.
Be careful when you're eating these.
You don't want to eat the paper.
But the paper sometimes says very strange things like, you will have a terrific number
seven.
Right, or something like that.
So that's why they're fortune cookies.
They usually talk about your future or what's going to happen.
Beware of whales.
But that's also an American invention that doesn't exist in China.
It doesn't really come from China, right?
So if you have any other information about food, we're always glad to hear it.
Because we're always hungry.
Or if you have a favorite Chinese food, please let us know.
We can't wait to hear from you and we will talk to you next time.
Woo hoo!
My name is Catherine and today we're looking for a new job.
That's right, we are looking for a new job and so we're bringing you this great lesson
where we're going to teach you in English a lot of terms related with looking for a
job or things like a resume, cover letter.
So before we get into that, why don't we take a look at a word that we have in Vocabulary
So this is actually the name of a job.
It's a position.
It's a gas station attendant.
Okay, a gas station attendant.
Now we know what a gas station is, right?
It's a place where you go to fill your car with gas.
So an attendant at a gas station, what does he do?
He or she is a person who will help you put the gas in your car.
So an attendant is someone who is almost like an assistant or a helper.
You can have a bathroom attendant, someone who gives you a towel after you wash your
hands.
I've seen those in the fancy restaurants.
Yeah, so gas station attendant.
Alright, so why don't we take a look now at our dialogue.
Let's listen to it for the first time and we'll be back in a bit.
This just might be the start of the rest of my life.
I'm in the market for a job.
I went on a website with hundreds of job listings in the area and browsed through them until
I got the names of a few employers I would like to work for.
I have the resume I wrote for English class last month and a cover letter will be a piece
of cake to write.
I've even done my research and found the names of the managers so I can address the letters
personally.
And you know, I can be charming in interviews.
Goodbye my penniless days, hello salary and a career.
Ben, we're 15.
What kind of job are you looking for?
Oh, just for a position as a gas station attendant.
You know, starting at a simple lowly job just like all the greats before they made it big
in the world.
But I'm just in it for the money, right?
How else am I going to be able to afford to keep taking Angela to the movies?
Besides, I love the smell of gasoline.
Don't you?
So now you're probably wondering what those words meant.
So why don't we take a look at a couple of them in Language Takeaway.
The first phrase we have today is one that's very important when you're looking for a job.
It's called job listing or job listings here.
Okay, job listings.
And this is really common before the internet existed.
You would have the listings in your local newspaper, right?
In the movies, you always had the person sitting with the newspaper circling the potential
jobs.
Right, with a red marker.
But now that we have the internet, you have lots of websites that have job listings.
And so a job listing is literally a list of jobs that are available.
So you look through the job listings.
Maybe you found one that's interesting.
There's an email address.
So what do they ask for?
They ask you to send in your resume.
A resume is very important when you're looking for a job.
It's a document.
It's a piece of paper that tells someone all of the work that you've done before, your
job experiences, and it tells them where you went to school and what your qualifications
are.
So it's a summary of your work life.
And that's why it's called a resume, right?
It's pretty much a summary of your work life, as you say.
And a different one, sometimes people use this, is a CV, curriculum vitae, and that's
an academic summary of your life.
So you have the work summary and the study summary.
So if you send in your resume, what's recommended is that you attach it with a cover letter.
Well, cover letter, you know the word letter.
It's something that you write to somebody else.
But a cover letter is like a cover for your resume.
It's a letter where you explain to the future boss or future employer what exactly you want
and how this job is going to help you get it.
So that's basically a small little introduction to yourself, right?
Before they read your resume, who you are, what you're looking for, maybe very quickly.
So you can say, Hi, my name is Catherine.
I'm very motivated and excited to have the opportunity to talk to you about why I'm a
skilled employee and why I will benefit your company.
So you've sent in your resume and your cover letter.
And well, maybe you're looking to get into a career as a gas station attendant.
So what's the difference between job and career?
And this is very interesting because in many languages, there is a similar word, which
for example, in Spanish is carrera, right?
And that means like a profession.
So many people translate it literally as career, but it's not the right word.
What is a career?
A career I think of as a long term goal.
A career is your profession.
It's the name you give yourself.
But a job is a position in a company from one time to another.
So for example, my job here is host of EnglishPod.
But maybe in the future, I will have a media career.
That means that my job or jobs will have to do with this profession.
It's kind of a bigger thing, a longer thing.
So maybe you can think of it this way.
A career is like, as you say, bigger picture, like the macro category, right?
You're into media and television, for example.
And your job specifically is a podcast host.
But in the future, maybe I want to have a different job in this career and move into
production and be a TV producer.
So that's a part of my career path.
I can move forward.
So career is very important word.
So we've taken a look at a couple of great words.
I've even done my research and found the names of the managers so I can address the
letters personally.
Goodbye my penniless days.
Hello salary and a career.
You know, starting at a simple lowly job, just like all the greats before they made
it big in the world.
So now we have lined up for you three key phrases that we found in this dialogue.
So let's take a look at those now in Fluency Builder.
This first one's a great phrase.
It's going to make you sound very fluent in English if you use it.
We say in the market for.
I'm in the market for a new job.
So this person is looking for a new job.
He is in the market for.
I could also say, I'm in the market for a new house.
Marco, do you know any good real estate agents?
So what does that mean if you say I'm in the market for a new job or you're in the market
for a new house?
I am right now actively looking for this thing.
I really want one.
You're available.
So I'm in the market for a new job.
I'm in the market for a new car.
It means the market is the marketplace.
And this sometimes you could see it related in movies.
For example, they say if a person gets married, they are no longer in the market.
I'm in the market for a husband.
Do you know any nice guys?
So you're in the market.
You're looking for a job.
And well, if you're qualified, it will be a piece of cake to find a new job.
Isn't this a delicious phrase?
So piece of cake, you think what does cake have to do with anything?
Well, cake, this is a way to say something is easy.
This often happens in our office actually, because you and I understand computers, but
we work with someone who has a hard time with computers.
And she's like, oh, it doesn't work.
And we're like, it's a piece of cake.
It's a piece of cake.
It's so easy.
Why is this hard?
So a piece of cake is a way to say something simple.
And it's a very, very, very common phrase.
A piece of cake, don't worry about it.
Piece of cake.
Hey, can you help me out with this thing?
Sure, it's a piece of cake.
And for our last phrase, he was talking about his position as a gas attendant.
And he said, well, you know, all the greats, all the famous people, they started somewhere
before they made it big.
What does he mean with they made it big?
Well, the phrase to make it big or in here in the past tense, made it big, means to be
successful.
So we're talking about, for example, Albert Einstein.
Albert Einstein worked in the patent office in a clue.
He was a clerk in Europe.
And you know, that's not a very impressive job, but it was a job.
And he made it big later on as a physicist.
And so to make it big is to succeed, to become famous or successful or important.
Or sometimes people say, yeah, I made it.
I made it big or I made it in my life.
And that means that you were successful.
Or this product is going to make it big.
It's going to be really successful.
Yeah, that's good.
So it's a key phrase to make it or to make it big.
Why don't we listen to our dialogue for the last time and we'll be back in a little bit.
All right, so talking about jobs, now I noticed something that in the United States, unlike
many other countries, there are no gas station attendants anymore.
There are.
Touche.
There are actually a lot of gas station attendants in New Jersey because it's the law that you
cannot pump your own gas.
You cannot put gas in your own car.
It's a way for the New Jersey government to increase the amount of jobs in the states.
So to create jobs, they made gas station attendants.
Yeah, I've noticed in some states, for example, you just go up to the pump and if you have
your credit card, you put in your credit card and you pump your own gas.
And apparently it also has to do with health issues because people who are working in gas
stations tend to have serious health problems later on.
I mean, you're inhaling all these gases from the gasoline.
It's very unhealthy.
And I think that's also very dangerous in some places because gas stations are often
robbed because there's only one person and no security sometimes.
So there are some negative parts of being a gas station attendant.
But if it's a job and you need a job, it's probably a good one.
Yeah, no, true.
I actually, I remember seeing Back to the Future when in the 50s, you would pull up
to a gas station, somebody would check your tire pressure, they would check your oil and
they would clean your windows and it's just like full service when you pulled up to a
gas station.
They might even buy you a beer.
Alright, so it's really interesting about these positions.
I imagine that in other places, some job positions that maybe we would find a little bit strange
or uncommon.
And I encourage everyone today, this is your homework, tell us on EnglishPod.com what is
your job and what's your career.
What's your job and what's your career.
So what's the career you would like to have in the future.
Make sure to subscribe to olur Why.
My name is Catherine and today we're talking about buying clothes.
We're going to go and get some clothes but on this occasion, we're going to get a suit
and we're going to have it made especially for us.
So before we get started, why don't we take a look at one keyword that we have in Vocabulary
Okay, this word makes me think of things that are very rich and soft.
It's a fabric, right?
It's a kind of textile.
It's called cashmere.
Cashmere.
So maybe you've heard of cashmere wool.
It's a special kind of wool that comes from animals.
So this is a textile or a fabric that is commonly used to make pants, nice pants or suits for
men.
Or scars or sweaters.
If you've ever had a cashmere sweater, you know it's very luxurious, very soft.
So it can be a little bit expensive depending on the quality and that's what we're going
to be looking at now.
We're going to be making a suit out of cashmere.
Welcome to Bill's Fabric World.
What can I do for you today?
I was wondering if you guys also tailor clothes.
Sure we do.
We're the best tailors in the country.
What is it that you need exactly?
Well I'm looking to get a custom made suit.
We have the finest cashmeres at affordable prices.
How about we get you measured?
Let's start off by measuring the width of your shoulders.
Now let's measure the length of your arms and this bit around your neck here.
Can you make sure you leave a little extra space in the collar?
My neck gets easily irritated.
Now for your pants, let me just measure your waist and the inseam.
You might also want to leave a little extra room in the waist area.
I tend to gain a few pounds over the holidays.
Now you can pick your fabric and pattern design.
Please follow me.
So this reminds me of something that people used to do a lot more often.
So you'd go to the tailor and you'd have some clothes made.
Most people don't do this anymore.
It's actually really interesting.
Maybe because it's more expensive nowadays or tailors are harder to find.
So let's learn about the words first and what they mean and then maybe we can talk about
this at the end of today's show.
Alright, so today on language takeaway we have a word that is a noun and a verb.
So as you mentioned, the person that makes suits is a tailor.
You can say, my uncle is a tailor.
He makes clothes for famous people.
But this word is also a verb.
That means it's an action word.
We can say, my uncle the tailor, he tailors clothes.
Okay, so to tailor clothes.
And what does it mean when you say to tailor?
Well, it can have two meanings.
The first is what we learn about in today's dialogue.
It means to make clothes.
So to make a shirt or to make a pair of pants.
But these days we often say to tailor which means to fix something.
So for example, Marco, if you buy a pair of pants and they're too long, you can have them
tailored.
Have them tailored.
And that means that I am going to have them fixed so they fit me properly.
This is a lot more common right now.
Okay, so we're going to be tailoring clothes.
Now if any of you have ever been to the tailor, what they do is they measure you.
And what do they measure?
Well, in this case, they get the width of your shoulders.
What's really great about these upcoming words is that they're useful in math as well.
Math and basic measurements.
So width is how big something is across.
How wide something is.
Wide, width.
Okay, so that's the width.
Now your shoulders, they are wide.
And well, your legs on the other hand, your legs and arms, you don't measure the width
usually, you measure the length.
How long they are.
Okay, so width and length.
Now just to throw it in there, this wasn't in the dialogue, but what would be the other
measure word?
So the third word would be height.
So you think of a rectangle, you have the width, how wide something is, the length,
how long it is, and the height, how tall it is.
How tall it is, right.
So width, length, and height.
Now that we've measured our arms and legs, now we want to measure our waist.
Okay, this is the important one.
This is also the sensitive one.
If you find that you've gained some weight, we measure the waist.
Okay, that's how big you are around your stomach.
And so usually we measure this in a circle.
Okay, so you've heard of a 26 inch waist or a 32 inch waist.
This is the size of your stomach.
Okay, so it's just above your hips, right?
As you say, it's your stomach.
And well, we've measured the waist.
And now in men especially, they measure the inseam.
Now this is very particular for tailors and having suits made.
What is the inseam of your pants?
Well think of the word in, inside.
This is the inside of your pants.
So from your foot to the middle of your pants where your zipper starts.
So that's not the outside length, it's the inside length.
Now for example, skirts, they don't have inseams, right?
No, because there's no inside, there's no middle.
So it's just like a circle.
But in pants or shorts, you have an inseam.
That's where it's connected in the middle.
All right, so also in shorts, very interesting.
So you can measure the inseam of pants or shorts.
All right, so very interesting and particular words for tailors.
We have the best tailors in the country.
Well, I'm looking to get a custom made suit.
So now we have three key phrases that we found in this dialogue.
So let's take a look at them now in Fluency Builder.
This first phrase is the topic of today's lesson.
We talked a little bit about measurements for a suit, but in particular we're getting
a custom made suit.
So this word custom made.
Well, custom is important, it means special or unique.
There's no other like it.
So we could talk about custom cars.
That means a car that has been fixed especially for you.
So a custom made suit would be a suit that was made specifically for your height, for
how big your waist is, etc.
Specifically for you.
So a suit that I buy at the department store is just a normal suit.
But a suit that I have made for me is a custom made suit.
So as you said, you can use it for cars, a custom made car, or maybe for example, a custom
made.
Custom made kitchen.
That means that you get to pick every single part of the kitchen that you want.
Many people do that, right?
They have custom built or custom made homes.
Yeah, that's always something I've wanted to do, but I hear that it's much more expensive
than getting a normal homemade.
So that's the first key phrase.
Now moving on, when we talk about measuring, we say, I measured.
I measured the length of this street.
Or let's measure you so we can see how big you are.
But if you notice in the dialogue, we use the passive voice.
He says, let's get you measured.
I got measured or it got measured.
To get measured, as you say, is the passive voice.
Now what's the difference between passive and active?
So basically what happens here is we are concentrating on the person and the action falling upon
you, for example.
So I got measured.
What happened to me?
I got measured.
Who did it?
Who measured you?
We don't know.
We don't care.
The point, the important part is that you were measured.
You got measured, but we could have a different phrase.
We say, for example, I will measure this table or he measures the height of the door and
we know he measures.
I will measure.
We know who the actor is.
That means it's active voice because the focus is on who's doing this action.
And in passive voice, the important thing is who is receiving the action.
Now it's a little bit complicated because as you can see, measured is in the past, but
we're not really talking about the past.
So it may get a little bit complicated.
We can take a more in-depth look at that in the community section.
You can ask a couple of questions.
We'll place a couple of examples, but it's kind of hard to get into the grammar over
an audio podcast, right?
So that's why we have the practice space on the website.
So moving on, we have our last phrase.
And when he was talking about the waist and how he should leave a little bit of extra
room, it's because he tends to gain a few pounds.
So to gain a few pounds is like gaining a kilo.
It means to gain weight over the holidays.
And in this case, to tend to, I tend to means I normally or I usually.
So for example, Marco, what do you tend to eat for breakfast?
I tend to eat scrambled eggs and a glass of yogurt.
That's healthy.
Do you tend to run late in the morning?
So tend to, it's a tendency, is what usually happens.
So very interesting phrases, very interesting words.
Why don't we listen to our dialogue for the last time?
So we talked earlier about how most people buy their clothes at a department store or
a clothing store.
Have you seen much of this?
You know, maybe back in Ecuador it's more common than in America.
Usually people just go to a department store and get suits for example, but it's actually
very common as well because it's kind of in their artisans to be like a shoemaker or to
be a tailor.
So actually people like it more and go to tailors because they kind of become renowned
like, oh, he used to make suits for the president.
So you know, people really, really like to get suits made there and obviously they fit
much better.
You feel more comfortable.
And you look better.
As I've said before, you know, I see people who buy all these suits.
My brother, for example, they never quite fit right.
You can tell it's a little too big in the shoulders.
My brother's tall, so his pants are always a little bit too short.
But when you come to a place like China and most people can get these suits made for them,
they just look fabulous.
It looks very, very nice.
So maybe you guys can tell us if you've ever had anything tailor made, not only guys' suits,
but girls also get tailor made dresses, tailor made blouses.
I always get coats made actually because my shoulders are broad and so it's hard for me
to find coats that fit right.
But if I get one custom made, it looks really good.
Leave your questions and comments there and we'll see you guys later.
Until next time, guys.
Man that hit.
My name is Katherine and today we've got a great informative lesson for you.
We are going to talk about an emergency situation.
So what do you do when you have an emergency?
You dial 911.
Alright, well maybe not in your country but today we're talking about emergencies in America
and jobs.
So people who can help you in an emergency.
So before we get into those words and phrases, let's take a listen to today's dialogue.
Alright class, now that we're all dressed up, let's see what professions you chose.
I see a fireman, a police officer, a medic and a lifeguard.
Can anyone tell me what these people have in common?
They save people from bad things.
Now class, if something bad happened and you had to get help, do you know what phone number
you would call?
911.
Yes!
You would pick up the phone and dial 911.
What are some emergency situations in which you would need to dial 911?
If my grandpa had a heart attack, if there was an accident, if a robber broke into the
house, if the fire alarm went off.
I wouldn't call 911 if the fire alarm went off in my house.
The only time that ever happens is when we're having spaghetti for supper and my mom burns
the garlic bread as usual.
So now we have a couple of different jobs for people that are working specifically in
emergency situations.
Alright, so we have a teacher in today's dialogue who's talking to her students about
Now obviously these students are very young and she says another word that means jobs.
What's the word she uses?
Professions.
That's the plural.
So profession is a job.
Let's say for example a lawyer is a profession.
Or a doctor.
A doctor, a lawyer.
So what's your profession is another way to ask what's your job.
Alright, so they're talking about professions and some of the kids dressed up as different
So the first one was a fireman.
A fireman.
So you know the first word fire.
A fireman is a person who puts out a fire.
That means he uses water to stop a fire.
So a fireman puts out fires.
Now apart from a fireman we also have a police officer.
A police officer.
So an officer is someone who works in an official capacity.
So in a job.
So we could say he is a police officer or a policeman or a policewoman.
So three ways to say this.
So officer is for both genders, right?
A man or a woman could be a police officer.
So you're going to hear this very often because policeman doesn't explain a woman police officer.
So we use police officer to be general.
So we have a fireman, a police officer, a medic.
Now what is this medic?
A medic is a kind of doctor, someone who will look at your health or help you if you've
hurt yourself, who usually works on the road like driving to an accident or driving to
a fire with police officers.
So these people help police officers and firemen when there's an emergency.
So a medic is not really a doctor.
He's more of a specific person that can help you if you have maybe some cuts or bruises
or will help you out.
So they will stop your bleeding or will help take you to the hospital and they'll make
sure that you're healthy when you get to the hospital.
But they are not really like a doctor where you work in a hospital or a doctor's office.
And our last profession is a lifeguard.
Well think about these two words.
We have life and we have guard.
Guard is like protect.
So a person that protects your life.
Hmm, interesting.
Well this is someone who usually works at the beach or at a pool.
They have a special chair and usually they have a cross on their bathing suit or on their
towel and this means that they're going to help protect people who are at the beach.
So if someone can't swim, the lifeguard will run or swim to get them and save them.
So you have a lifeguard.
Now this is for men and women as well, right?
A lifeguard.
So interesting professions.
Ah, I see a fireman, a police officer, a medic and a lifeguard.
If my grandpa had a heart attack.
If there was an accident.
If a robber broke into the house.
If the fire alarm went off.
Alright, we're back so now let's start with Fluency Builder.
Our first item in Fluency Builder we've already talked about.
The number in America to call when you have an emergency is 911.
So we usually say, hey, dial 911.
Okay, so that's a verb there, to dial.
To dial means to select the numbers for a phone call.
To telephone someone.
To telephone someone, to dial.
So you can dial 911 or dial my office number.
Or I tried to dial your home number but no one answered.
Now you can call 911 for many different situations or emergency.
One of the kids said, well, if my grandpa had a heart attack.
Okay, so this is an example of an emergency.
A heart attack is a medical problem.
It's when your heart cannot receive oxygen.
Okay, so your heart stops beating sometimes.
It's when your heart does not receive enough blood or oxygen.
So it's when your heart stops beating.
So that's a heart attack.
Now another possible emergency situation is if the fire alarm goes off.
This often happens in office buildings and schools.
So you hear a dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee
or some kind of strange noise.
Well that's because there's maybe a fire or some smoke in your building.
And so usually when this sound goes off, it automatically calls the police and the fire
Now there's an interesting phrasal verb that is used along with this word fire alarm.
We say the fire alarm goes off or the fire alarm went off.
So that means it started to sound, to emit a sound.
So the verb here, as you said it's a phrasal verb, is to go off.
We could say my alarm went off.
Or every morning at 7 o'clock my alarm goes off.
Okay, that means your alarm begins to make a sound.
A very annoying sound.
You know, it's the worst sound ever.
But a lot of things can go off.
We could talk about a bell or an alarm.
Or fireworks.
Or fireworks go off.
And well, the last emergency that we were talking about is if a robber broke into the
So if a robber breaks in.
To break into.
This means to enter, to go inside without permission or without a key.
Illegally.
So you don't have to break something but usually you break a window or a door.
But this means that someone comes into your house looking to steal something.
So usually you have to use force.
For example, if I forget my keys inside my car and I have to break into my own car, that
means maybe I have to force the door open or maybe break the window.
Yeah, it's not fun.
I think it usually ends up being very expensive.
Yes, it does.
Alright, so those are all the phrases we have for today.
Why don't we listen to our dialogue for the very last time.
So Marco, when you were a kid and your teacher said, what jobs are there, what professions
are there, what profession would you like, what did you answer?
I always wanted to be a pilot.
Oh, pilot.
So you wanted to fly airplanes.
Yeah, I wanted to be a jet pilot.
Actually I collected books about it, I read up about it, so even till now I probably still
remember like the capacity of certain jets or what types of weapons they have.
I was really, really into it.
Wow, I never knew this about you.
Yeah, what about you?
I could never decide as a kid.
I remember we had to draw pictures of what I will look like in 20 years and everyone
had these pictures, I will be a doctor, I'll be a veterinarian, I'll be the president.
I never knew what to draw, so I think I copied my friend, she wanted to be a lawyer.
I was like, okay, that sounds okay.
Yeah, I think it's hard and usually what you want to be as a kid, you don't do it when
you're older.
Yeah, it's because of my vision, I didn't have 20-20 vision to actually join the Air
Force.
Well, and a lot of kids don't know how many jobs there are out there.
You know the big ones, doctor, lawyer, fireman, policeman, astronaut.
So I guess the question for you is what's your profession?
Tell us about it, especially if it's one of the less famous professions out there, because
there's a lot that I don't know about those.
Our website is EnglishPod.com, we hope to see you there and until next time.
My name is Catherine and today we are covering a very important health issue.
We are, that's right, in case of an emergency, maybe somebody stops breathing, so we need
to apply CPR.
Now what is this procedure?
Well, let's take a look at it in Vocabulary Preview.
CPR in English is an acronym that means C, P, and R all stand for different words.
The big phrase here is cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
So you don't have to remember that.
Well, that's pretty hard.
What if you break it down?
So what is cardio?
Cardio means it has to do with your heart.
And then pulmonary?
Pulmonary means lungs.
It has to do with your lungs.
And what about resuscitation?
That means to bring back.
So to resuscitate is to bring back to life.
So this is a very popular procedure.
You probably see it in movies when somebody almost drowned, the lifeguard performs CPR.
Oh no, the love of my life has just drowned.
And then someone comes and they push their chest and they say, one, two, three, they
count.
And then the person spits out water and everything and they're like, I always loved you.
So that's CPR.
Why don't we listen to this dialogue, see what's going on and we'll be back shortly.
Hello everyone and welcome to our CPR for beginners course.
First of all, does anyone know what CPR stands for?
Cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
We apply CPR in the case of cardiac arrest or pulmonary arrest.
Well, basically if your heart stops pumping blood or your lungs stop pumping air, then
we need to get them going again.
That's when we have to apply this procedure.
Let's begin.
I need a volunteer.
Me, me.
Come here and lay flat on your back.
Let's suppose this young woman has stopped breathing.
We must lift the person's chin so that we clear a pathway for air to get into the lungs.
Then we place our mouth over the other person's mouth and blow air two or three times like
Wait, what are you doing?
You're a married woman.
You can't just try to kiss me like that.
Ma'am, I'm not trying to kiss you.
I'm trying to demonstrate how to apply CPR in the case of an emergency.
No French kissing.
As I was saying, we blow air through the mouth in this manner.
Once this is done, we must try to get the heart going again.
To do this, we place our hands over the person's chest and press down firmly two or three times.
You can't just kiss me then go for second base.
So a couple of pretty difficult words and phrases there, but don't worry.
We'll explain them now in Language Takeaway.
The first phrase we've got today is cardiac arrest.
All right, so cardiac arrest.
Now cardiac, I think that has to do with the heart again, right?
Exactly, your heart.
And what about arrest?
Well, arrest means two things.
Maybe you've heard of this meaning to arrest somebody, the police arrested someone.
Well, this means to stop.
So we're not talking about the police here.
We're talking about the heart stopping.
So cardiac arrest means when your heart stops.
Okay, and another word that's right next to it, pulmonary arrest.
So I'm guessing again, pulmonary has to do with lungs and arrest stops so your lungs
stop pumping air.
So cardiac and pulmonary arrest, these are two times when your heart or your lungs, they
stop doing what they are supposed to do.
All right, and interestingly enough, the heart pumps blood, the lungs pump air, and that's
our next word.
What is this word to pump?
To pump means to fill something with.
So for example, the heart pumps blood to the rest of your body.
That means it's always making sure your body has blood going into it.
And the same thing with your lungs.
Your lungs help oxygen and air get to the rest of your body.
So they pump it, they fill up with air.
Okay, and we can do the same in other things.
For example, you pump air into your tire.
If you have a flat tire, you're riding your bicycle and your bicycle won't move.
Oh no, you have to pump it with air.
That means fill it up with air.
Okay, or maybe even pump water, right?
Like in your house.
Or pump your car up with gas.
So now the man is going to explain how to perform this procedure, CPR, and he asks for
a volunteer.
Okay, a volunteer.
This is a word that can be both a noun, so a thing, and it can be an action, a verb.
Okay, so who is or what is a volunteer?
A volunteer is someone who offers to do something for free.
For free, without you asking them to do it.
Right, so are there any volunteers in the room?
Right, and somebody says, me, me, me.
Me, me, me, I do.
You can also volunteer to help people who need help.
So for example, in Haiti, there's an earthquake, and there are many people who offered to volunteer
to help patients.
So that means they said, I will work for free to help these people, a volunteer.
A volunteer, or to volunteer.
So now we have our volunteer, and the man is explaining what to do.
Move the person's chin so that we clear a pathway for air to get into the lungs.
So a path is like a road.
It's where something can go, can move.
To clear a pathway means to make some room.
To make a clear path.
So that means, think about it, if you can't breathe, someone has to find a way to make
room to make a hole for you to breathe.
So that means to move whatever is blocking you to clear some kind of space.
So that's a pathway, a clear space.
And now, well he's demonstrating how to perform CPR.
So what is this verb, to demonstrate?
To demonstrate is very important.
We use this in most kinds of teaching.
So to demonstrate is to show or to give an example.
So for example, here in EnglishPod, we are demonstrating how to use these words in sentences.
So an example is a good way to demonstrate the word or the phrase.
Why don't we listen to this dialogue again and we'll be back in a bit.
I'm a married woman.
We're back so now let's go with Fluency Builder.
Well, the first phrase in Fluency Builder we hear in the beginning of today's dialogue.
The teacher says, well basically if your heart stops pumping blood, then we need to get it
going again.
So that's a whole phrase there, to get something going, to get it going.
What do you mean by this?
This means to start it up again.
So we could say, I used to teach an English class for my colleagues but we stopped having
I'd like to get it going again.
So you'd like to start it up again.
So usually you're talking about turning something on or getting something started.
For example, maybe your car won't start so if you push it, you can get it going.
To get it going or to turn the keys to get it going.
So to get something going.
Now moving on, we have two key phrases here that are a little bit spicy, right?
Yeah, they're very romantic.
Although this is a CPR class so it shouldn't be very romantic.
Well, this phrase that we have coming up is French kiss.
To French kiss someone or a French kiss.
So the volunteer says, okay, I'm happy to help you but no French kissing.
So what is French kissing?
No one wants to answer.
It is when you kiss someone but your tongue goes into that other person's mouth.
So there's a normal kiss.
You can kiss your friends on the cheek but a French kiss means that you use your tongue.
So I wonder why they call it a French kiss.
Maybe Americans just were too shy.
They blamed it on the French.
Maybe the French listeners out there can tell us.
So now moving on and she says, okay, no French kissing.
Now the man is going to perform CPR and obviously he has to firmly press down on her chest to
get her heart pumping blood, right?
This is a part of CPR.
So first of all, you try to give the person air so they can breathe and then you have
to push their chest to start their heart.
And this woman, the volunteer says, hey, what are you doing?
You can't just kiss me first and then go for second base.
So what is second base?
This is a sports metaphor.
With baseball, right?
Baseball.
Because baseball has four bases.
First, second, third base and home plate or home base.
So in romance, when we're talking about dating, we have a way to say first, second, third
and fourth base.
First base is kissing.
That's kissing, right?
So second base, what would be second base?
Well, in this example, it means touching.
Touching.
Certain parts of the body, right?
Romantic touching.
So second base and then obviously we have third and fourth, but we're not going to get
into that now.
You can look it up on Google, third base and fourth base.
We trust that you can find it.
But first and second base are very common.
It's okay to talk about.
It's not a bad word.
So you'll probably see it in movies, young kids talking about first base or going to
second base with someone.
So it's kind of saying this in a different way, as a metaphor, as you said.
It's more polite than talking about.
It's more subtle.
So that's all the words and phrases we have on Fluency Builder.
Let's listen to this great dialogue one last time.
Well, basically, if your heart stops pumping blood or your lungs stop pumping air, then
Me.
Well, OK.
So a CPR class, this is actually a very popular thing to take up.
You never know when you need to perform it, right?
I think it's a really smart class to take.
You can usually take them for free at a community center or a fire department.
The Red Cross.
I have a Red Cross certification.
So you know how to perform this?
It's actually, as I said, I think it would be very useful.
I've never taken a course like this up, but I know how to perform the procedure.
I'm not certified though, so I'm not a certified CPR person.
But it's interesting.
Let us know if in your country maybe you can take CPR classes or maybe you're a CPR certified
technician.
Or maybe you are trained in other ways, so we're curious about those as well.
Let us know if you have any questions about today's lesson, our website is EnglishPod.com.
Enjoy 501c3PP0GRS today!
And my name is Kathryn and today we might just teach you how to save a life.
We're going to save a life and we are going to do this by applying first aid.
So let's take a look at vocabulary preview and find out just exactly what this phrase
Okay, so we have this word first aid.
It's two parts.
So first is…
Before.
Early.
And aid.
So when you aid someone, you help them, right?
So this is actually a noun.
Aid is help.
So we're applying first aid.
This means we're the first person to come and help someone.
So for example, if someone is bleeding, the first aid is to stop the bleeding.
So first aid.
We're going to learn all about this.
Take a listen to today's dialogue and we'll be back in a moment.
Hey Joe, where have you been these past few days?
I've been busy with a first aid course that I started about a week ago at the Red
Cross.
Cool!
I've always wanted to do something like that.
Have you learnt anything useful?
I mean, we learned how to apply pressure to stop bleeding, how to check for a pulse, and
even how to apply CPR.
Have you treated any real emergencies?
Well, they took us along with some paramedics.
There was this guy who fell off his motorcycle and suffered a concussion as well as a couple
of compound fractures.
His wounds were pretty serious so they had to rush him to the hospital.
I can imagine.
I tend to faint when I see blood, so I think I won't be taking up a course like that
anytime soon.
So there are a lot of medical and health-related terms in this dialogue, so why don't we
take a look at a couple of those in Language Takeaway.
Well, starting us out here in Language Takeaway, we have the name of an organization that's
not-for-profit, that's very, very, very famous.
This is called the Red Cross.
Okay, so the Red Cross.
And this is usually a place where you donate blood.
You can also get some blood exams done.
What else do you do there?
Well, the Red Cross is an organization that has offices and clinics all over the world.
And if you want to help, you can volunteer, you can donate money, and you can donate blood.
But the Red Cross will take this and it will help other people, people who have been in
disasters or wars.
And so maybe the Red Cross office near you will have blood banks and blood donations.
But really, they help people, they provide aid to people who are unhealthy or sick or
have been in a war.
A very humanitarian organization.
So worth it.
Go to the Red Cross and donate blood.
In the dialogue, the two people are discussing real emergencies.
And one person says he went along with some paramedics.
So a paramedic is a person.
It's a person.
It's a profession, right?
To be a paramedic.
But it's not really a doctor.
So what's the difference here?
So paramedics are something like nurses, right?
That travel in an ambulance and get to an emergency or get to the scene of an accident
and help out a person.
So they immobilize the person, they give them oxygen.
They make sure that they stay alive until they reach the hospital.
Okay, so a paramedic, you might hear the word medic, it's the same thing.
A paramedic is like a nurse.
They're not a doctor, but they're usually the first person to help when there's been
an accident or a disaster.
So if there is an earthquake and many people are stuck in the buildings, usually paramedics
will be the ones on the scene trying to get them out and helping them by applying for
first aid.
Well, after that, we have finally some of the injuries that a paramedic might see.
The first injury is usually associated with the head.
This is called a concussion.
You suffered a concussion.
It sounds painful.
And actually, it's very common, I think, right?
If you fall and you hit your head.
So a concussion is really when your brain hits your skull.
That's the bone that protects your brain.
So really, you're hitting your head really, really hard.
And usually, this can have some bad side effects like you lose your memory or you're a little
bit confused.
It's very common with football players.
With any contact sport, if people suffer concussions, and it's just like, imagine when you have
a DVD player and you hit it and the disc skips or it goes back.
That's kind of what happens to your brain.
So you can suffer memory loss.
You can even lose your sight temporarily.
So this can be very serious and obviously should be looked at by a paramedic.
We also have another situation that is similarly serious.
It's called a compound fracture.
So what is a fracture or two fracture?
A fracture is a thing.
It's a break.
So you could say, I broke my arm.
But you could also say, I fractured my arm.
This is the more medical term.
But of course, there are different ways to break something.
And so in medicine, we have a compound fracture.
So a compound fracture is pretty painful and it's a little bit more serious.
You have a simple fracture, which is when your bone just breaks.
Or a hairline, which means that there's a little thin part where it's broken, but it's
not really serious.
In this case, it's your bones actually push towards each other.
They kind of form like a little mountain, right?
Or they're on top of each other.
Think about when two cars hit and they kind of crash up into each other.
It's like that, but it's your bone.
So it's extremely painful.
It's very, very painful.
So the person suffered a concussion and a compound fracture.
Now the friend that he was talking to said, wow, it sounds amazing.
It's really cool that you're doing that.
I faint when I see blood.
Do you do this?
Well, some people when they see blood, they feel very, very uncomfortable or sick.
And so to faint is to fall down on the ground.
It's almost like you're falling asleep, but it's not sleep.
Have you ever fainted?
I fainted twice in my life.
One time I fainted because of heat.
It was very, very, very hot.
And I couldn't breathe for a moment.
And then I woke up on the ground.
That's what happens.
So yeah, if you ever faint, it's basically that you're just standing there, you're sitting
somewhere and all of a sudden everything goes black and you wake up and you're on the ground.
And you feel very, very weak before that.
And very pale, I think as well.
Yeah, your blood goes away from your brain and you pass out.
It's a very strange sensation.
Because then everyone else around you, they know what happened.
They saw you and so they're looking at you like you're crazy or maybe sick.
To faint.
So that's to faint.
So those are the key words that we have for you on Language Takeaway.
Let's take a listen to our dialogue again.
And we'll be back shortly to take a look at some phrases on Fluency Builder.
I've been busy with the first aid course that I started about a week ago at the Red Cross.
Have you learned anything useful?
His wounds were pretty serious, so they had to rush him to the hospital.
I tend to faint when I see blood, so I think I won't be taking up a course like that any
time soon.
So quiz, Marco.
What is the first thing that a paramedic does when he or she finds a body in an emergency?
What paramedic checks for a pulse to make sure you're alive, right?
A pulse.
So, dum, dum, dum, dum.
The pulse is the rhythm, that's the sound of your heart pumping blood.
And you can feel someone's wrist or their throat.
So to check for a pulse means to check and make sure their heart is pumping blood.
And not only that, but to make sure that the heart is pumping blood relatively normal because
sometimes your heart can be pumping blood too fast or too slow.
And if it's too slow, it's very possible that you will faint.
So we check for a pulse.
Now, what else happens?
Well, if there's a very serious emergency and the paramedic needs help to give aid to
the person who is injured, then they will rush that person to the hospital.
So the verb to rush, what does that mean?
All right, so to rush someone or to rush someone to the hospital means to take someone or to
go with someone very, very quickly.
I could say, listen, Marco, I don't want to rush you, but I really need the report done
Or I could say, I need to rush home.
My parents need me.
Or if a woman is having a baby, you want to rush her to the emergency room.
So you need to go quickly.
So when we're talking about fainting, the person said, before he used the word faint,
he said, I tend to faint.
I tend to.
I tend to is a really great verb that describes a normal or habitual behavior.
That's like saying, I tend to faint when it's very, very hot outside.
That means I often faint when it's very, very hot outside.
It's something that happens normally.
So it's a tendency.
It's not for everyone.
It's for me.
So I tend to.
What's something that you tend to faint when you see?
I never faint.
You don't faint.
No, just kidding.
I tend to leave the towel on the bed sometimes after I take a shower.
I know it's a bad habit.
And then the sheets smell.
Because I leave it there for like five or 10 minutes and then I realize, oh my God,
and then I pick it up.
But it's hard to...
I tend to forget my leftover food in the refrigerator for a long time.
And then it starts to smell.
But I don't like to waste food.
But you like let it rot and then your fridge smells.
So that's all we've got for Fluency Builder today.
But we can talk about tendencies in a moment.
Maybe a homework assignment could be to think of something that you tend to do.
That could be an interesting homework assignment.
But before we jump into that, why don't we listen to our dialogue for the very last time?
Hey, Joe, where have you been these past few days?
I've been busy with a first aid course that I started about a week ago at the Red Cross.
I tend to faint when I see blood, so I think I won't be taking up a course like that anytime
soon.
Be sure to do your homework assignment.
In the comments section, tell us, what do you tend to do?
It could be a good thing.
It could be a bad thing.
Obviously, you can try and use some of the vocabulary you heard in today's lesson about
health and safety.
You might get some extra points from us for doing that.
I know some people who tend to leave the house with a whole medicine kit in their bags or
in their purses.
A first aid kit.
A first aid kit, exactly.
So do you do this?
That's all we've got for today, so until next time.
And my name is Katherine and we've got a special announcement to make today.
This is lesson number 200.
So good job EnglishPod.
We have over 200 lessons already in our library so that's like enough for like six months
of continuous learning I think.
But the lessons keep coming and they keep getting better so of course you should continue
to listen to us.
We just thought we would mention that today is the special number 200.
And because it's a special number we're going to talk about a very laid back topic but very
interesting nonetheless.
We're talking about junk food.
You might argue that it's actually too laid back and is the cause of many problems in
America and other places in the world.
Junk food is unhealthy food.
So let's take a listen to today's dialogue and we'll be back in a moment to talk about
what's going on.
I'm hungry.
Let's go grab a bite to eat.
How about we go home and prepare a couple of sandwiches?
Nah, let's get a burger and fries.
What you ever do is have unhealthy fast food.
Pizza, fries, burgers and hot dogs.
You have to start eating better.
I have salads sometimes.
You should also cut down on your sugar intake as well.
You drink carbonated drinks that are high in fructose syrup.
It's really not healthy.
I'll start drinking water and having home cooked meals that are low in fat.
Are you happy now?
It's a start but I'll be happy when I see you stick to your promise.
So let's take a look at some of the great words and phrases all about junk food now
My favorite.
This stuff makes me hungry.
But it's not very good for you.
It's not.
It's terrible.
Actually, his favorite food was burger and fries.
I had it for dinner last night.
You had burger and fries?
Well, it's not very healthy and there's a great way to describe this.
The word is unhealthy.
Alright, so yes, as you say, it's very unhealthy.
Well, yeah, because you get fat.
They're very high in calories.
So it's unhealthy.
So that means it's not good for you.
So just a reminder, in English, when we hear the word unhealthy or unhappy, this means
not healthy, not happy.
Un is a prefix that means not.
Okay, and talking about unhealthy food, in general, what are we talking about?
We're talking about fast food.
Okay, so this might require a story.
What is the meaning behind fast food as opposed to slow food?
Because there is no slow food, right?
I think now they have it in like France or something like that.
They talk about slow food.
But anyways, fast food is food that is prepared very quickly.
So you go, you order, in two or three minutes, you have your entire order ready to go.
Okay, so maybe this is the food that I could get at McDonald's or Burger King where they
make it very, very quickly and I can go home or I can go to the office with my food ready.
So fast food, very popular among countries, very popular nowadays among busy people who
have no time to sit down at a restaurant or eat or sit down and have a proper lunch.
Fast food.
And one of the important drinks at a fast food restaurant is a carbonated drink.
So this carbonated, what does this mean?
This is actually the fancy word for soda or for fizzy drink.
Fizzy, okay.
So something that's carbonated has bubbles.
Yeah, it has bubbles.
For example, a lot of Europeans drink carbonated water.
That means water with bubbles in it.
So actually, the bubbles are caused because the drink has a high concentration of a certain
gas such as carbon.
So that's why it has all these bubbles and it's fizzy like Coca-Cola for example.
Right, Coca-Cola or Sprite, these are carbonated drinks.
So you have carbonated water and you have carbonated soda.
What is the thing that makes soda different?
What is it that makes soda taste so good?
It's sweet and the ingredient that makes it sweet is called fructose syrup.
Fructose syrup is essentially sugar.
Yeah, and it comes from corn I believe, right?
So you can also hear the name corn syrup and this is a sweet syrup that comes from corn
that makes drinks like Sprite and Coca-Cola taste so good.
It's also very unhealthy for you.
Yes, because it has a lot of calories.
So that is one of the main ingredients in soda.
Now you know you have fructose syrup.
Alright, so that's all we've got for Language Takeaway.
We'll be back in a second.
All you ever do is have unhealthy fast food.
I have salad sometimes.
I'll start drinking water and having home-cooked meals that are low in fat.
It's a start, but I'll be happy when I see you stick to your promise.
So now we have a couple of great phrases that we heard along the dialogue.
Alright, so starting off.
This is a very interesting phrase because we saw it in the first sentence and it says,
let's go grab a bite to eat.
Let's grab a bite to eat.
So to grab is to hold something with your hand, okay, to do it quickly.
He grabbed my arm.
So to grab a bite to eat, a bite is a small taste.
We're going to have a quick meal.
So after work, you want to go grab a bite to eat?
That means let's go have something to eat quickly.
Yeah, I'll be there soon.
Let me just grab a bite to eat.
So bite is a little bit.
It's a small amount of food.
Now for our next phrase, it's very important because I've noticed that a lot of our English
learners make the mistake of using this phrase.
It's how about.
How about.
So in today's dialogue, the phrase is, how about we go home and prepare a couple of sandwiches?
So how about is used as a suggestion is, how do you feel or what do you think of going
home and preparing a couple of sandwiches?
So another way to say this is, why don't we go home and prepare some sandwiches?
But commonly, English learners make the mistake of using how about as a way of saying how
was it or how is it.
So for example, how about your weekend?
Wrong.
So how was your weekend?
So how about is usually used when we make a suggestion.
How about we go see a movie on Saturday?
Or how about we go to my parents' house for Christmas this year?
Or finally, how about you get another job so that we can have more money to spend on
going out to eat?
So how about, these are all suggestions.
Why don't you get another job?
Why don't we go to our parents' house for Christmas?
So you can't say, how about your weekend?
You say, how was your weekend?
So there's a big difference there.
So make sure to stay away from that typical mistake using how about.
Now moving on, we were talking about fast food and how it's bad for you and she said,
You should also cut down on your sugar intake.
So to cut down, that's a phrasal verb.
Cut down.
So that means to decrease.
I'm trying to cut down on the amount of soda that I drink.
Or I'm trying to cut down on how much I spend on the weekends.
So to cut down means to decrease or to lessen.
And for our last phrase, the whole thing that we're talking about and one of the favorite
meals for everyone, burger and fries.
So this is one of many combinations for meals.
You can have a burger and fries, which is a hamburger and French fries.
So oftentimes you'll say, hey, let's go grab a burger and fries.
Another combination, especially in England, is fish and chips.
Fish and chips.
Fish would be a fried fish sandwich and chips would be French fries as well.
So actually in England, they call French fries, they call them chips.
So if you're confused by the word chips or potato chips and French fries, these are different
things in different places.
But if you're talking to an American, French fries is the way to go.
Or for a while, they were called freedom fries.
Well, we don't need to talk about that.
We can talk about that in a later lesson.
But for now, the phrase is burger and fries.
Let's listen to our dialogue for the very last time.
Pizza, fries, burgers, and hot dogs.
We're back, Marco.
You're laughing.
I know you like junk food.
What's your favorite junk food of all time?
Actually, I am a big, big fan of fried chicken.
I love fried chicken.
Yummy.
I think it's really greasy and oily and it's very, very bad, but I can't help it.
It's very good.
You can buy bags of it in America.
You can get like a pound bag of fried chicken.
You buy it by the pound in America, right?
You pay for how much it weighs.
I actually really enjoy it, but places like Kentucky Fried Chicken, they're too expensive
for fried chicken.
Yeah, you don't necessarily want to go there.
There's other places that are a lot more maybe traditional that are pretty good.
What is your favorite junk food?
Chicago-style hot dog and french fries.
When you go to see a baseball game, you get a hot dog, but Chicago-style is good.
It's not too much stuff on it.
You have a poppy seed bun, so it's a bun, a piece of bread with some seeds on it and
a lot of mustard and ketchup and onions.
I really enjoy hot dogs, but the one thing that I cannot have on a hot dog is mustard
or relish.
Those are the two best things.
Okay, I can't talk to you anymore.
Well, tell us what your favorite junk food is and tell Marco that he's crazy if he doesn't
like mustard.
Ask us questions as well.
We're happy to answer them.
My name is Katherine and welcome everyone.
Today we've got an elementary level lesson for you.
It's all about sending things through the mail.
So maybe gifts, maybe letters.
We're going to the post office so why don't we jump right into this dialogue.
Let's listen to it for the first time and we'll be right back.
Hi I would like to send this package to China and these postcards as well.
You will need some stamps for the postcards and I need to weigh that package too.
How much is this going to cost?
Well it depends.
Do you want to send it via priority, express or standard mail?
What's the difference?
Well standard mail can take up to 15 working days.
Priority is a bit faster and will arrive in about 5 to 8 working days.
Express is the fastest but it's also the most expensive.
It only takes three days and you can track your package online.
Well there's no rush.
Please send it via priority mail.
Please be extra careful.
The contents of the package are fragile.
All right so pretty simple dialogue.
We want to send a package through the mail.
So why don't we take a look at some of those mail related terms in Language Takeaway.
Alright so the first item we're going to talk about in today's Language Takeaway is something
you can send.
It's called a postcard.
A postcard.
Okay so very popular among people who are traveling and they want to send a postcard
back home.
So a postcard is something that you usually buy at a tourist destination like Walt Disney
World for example.
And it has a picture on the front and some words on the back.
So you can write a letter on the back of this picture.
So it's very simple.
It's not really a letter.
You don't put it in an envelope.
You just write whatever you want on the back of the postcard.
But you do have to put a stamp on it in order to send it.
So stamp is our next word.
A stamp comes in different price ranges.
That means that some stamps are more expensive than other stamps.
This is like money for the mail.
So you have to buy the stamps and in order to prove that you have paid for the letter
that you want to send, you must place the stamps on the letter on the envelope or on
the postcard, right?
So depending on the size and weight, it costs more.
And usually you lick a stamp to place it on the card so it doesn't fall off.
You gotta lick it.
So as we talked about, a package can be a letter, a postcard.
You place stamps on it and we need to weigh the package to know how much money we have
to pay.
So sometimes a package is very heavy if it's filled with books for example.
Sometimes it's very light if it's filled with clothes or feathers.
And so to find out how much something weighs, we have to weigh it.
So this is a verb, right?
To weigh.
So you want to know how many kilos or how many pounds this item has.
So we could say, it weighs a lot or how much do you weigh?
Moving on, we have the different types of mailing speeds, I guess, right?
So we saw three, via priority mail, express mail or standard mail.
So let's go in parts.
Let's go with the first one, via priority mail.
Priority is fast.
It means priority is something that's important.
So I have many priorities at work.
This means they're important.
So this letter has a certain importance.
It's a little bit more important than for example, the other letters.
But express is the most important, the fastest.
So something that's express is fast.
Like an expressway is the fast highway.
Express mail.
So express mail is the fastest.
And now the normal cheapest mail is standard mail.
Standard.
So the word standard usually means the average or the normal mail.
And in this case, it usually takes the longest.
So obviously standard mail is the cheapest.
Express mail is the most expensive because it's the fastest.
So we've got all of those speeds.
Now let's listen again to today's dialogue and try and listen for the words we just talked
about and we'll be back in a moment to talk about some important phrases.
Hi, I would like to send this package to China and these postcards as well.
Well, standard mail can take up to 15 working days.
Priority is a bit faster and will arrive in about five to eight working days.
Well, there's no rush.
Please be extra careful, the contents of the package are fragile.
Alright we're back so now let's take a look at three key phrases on Fluency Builder.
Alright, so the first phrase today is one that I like to use a lot.
We say, it depends.
Well, it depends.
So the phrase could be, it depends.
So it depends.
When do you usually use this?
Okay, if you ask me a question, I can have one answer but maybe there's another possible
For example, what are you going to wear tomorrow, Marco?
It depends if it rains or not.
Okay, it depends.
If it rains, I will wear a raincoat.
If it's sunny, I will wear a normal coat.
So it depends means there is a situation or a circumstance that might change and if it
does, my answer will change.
Right, so it is a conditional, it depends.
For example, I can ask you, what are you going to eat tonight?
If I exercise, I'm going to have a hamburger and if I don't exercise, I'll have a salad.
Nice, okay.
Now we have another phrase when they were talking about how long it's going to take
to mail something.
He said standard mail can take up to 15 working days.
So we have this little phrase there, up to.
Up to.
So up to, when you hear this, these two words together, that's an indication, it's a sign
that we're talking about the maximum, the most.
Okay so tomorrow, the temperature might go up to 24 degrees Celsius.
Okay so the temperature maximum will reach 24.
It could be maybe 22, 21.
But not 25.
Not 25.
No, because up to means the top.
So you're usually dealing with numbers, right?
For example, this coat can cost up to $150.
Wow, so the most I will spend is $150.
So sometimes you have a number like this when we're talking about sending a package.
We can send packages that weigh up to 10 kilos.
Not more than 10 kilos though.
And now for our last phrase to close off the dialogue, the guy said, well you know what,
there's no rush.
No rush.
There's no rush.
Okay, well the first word we want to look at here is the word rush.
In this case, we're talking about sending a package and the postcard, right?
So does this person want it to arrive fast?
He says no.
No, there's no rush.
Let's send it standard.
Okay, so maybe your friend is like, come on, we're going to be late.
And you're like, no, there's no rush.
We have one hour before the movie starts.
Okay, so you're not in a hurry.
This is a good one to talk about with friends or if you're working on a project at work.
You say, listen, there's no rush.
Take your time.
So let's go back to our dialogue.
Let's listen to it for the very last time and we'll be back in a bit.
Express is the fastest, but it's also the most expensive.
So now, Catherine, do you usually send postcards when you are abroad, when you travel?
Yes, I love postcards.
And actually, I have some friends who have an amazing postcard collection.
But it's not normal postcards.
They find the most ugly postcards and they buy them and they write silly notes and they
send them to themselves.
I have the tradition of always sending my parents and my grandparents a postcard when
I'm abroad.
That's so sweet.
They have a collection of all the places you've been.
So all the time, wherever I am, the first thing that I try to do if I'm in a cool place,
I send them a postcard.
And sometimes if I'm in a country in various cities and there are some nice things in,
for example, two or three cities, I'll send them three postcards.
That's awesome.
So do they have a book at home with all of these postcards?
So I just send them a little thing, how I'm doing and how great it is and wish you could
be here, little notes.
And then they have all the collection.
It's really cool because that way I've actually kept track a little bit of what year and what
date I was in certain places.
Well, it's also nice because postcards, you don't need to write a very long note.
There's no space.
You just write a short note.
You say, hi, how's the weather?
Miss you.
Wish you were here.
But let us know if you've had any inconveniences at the post office.
I actually had one once.
I couldn't send batteries through the mail because they have acid apparently.
It's very difficult to send.
So maybe you've had a situation like this before.
Let us know, EnglishPod.com.
Hey, you can, too.
And my name is Katherine and today we've got a great lesson for you about traveling
and getting directions.
So sometimes we are looking for an address, we are looking for our friend's house and
we can't find it.
So what do you have to do?
You have to stop and ask someone for directions.
There's actually a joke in many countries that men hate to ask for directions.
And so this is the women's approach, asking and getting directions and finally finding
your way.
So it's a good thing.
That's a very good thing.
So we're going to jump right into the dialogue.
Let's see what happens here and if they can find the place they're looking for.
We've been going around in circles for the past hour.
Will you just please stop and ask for directions?
We are not lost.
I'm just taking the scenic route.
Yeah, whatever.
I told you we should buy that GPS that was on sale.
But would you listen to me?
No, this is so typical.
I'll ask this guy for directions if it will shut your trap.
Can you tell me how to get to St. Mary's Church?
Go down Park Road, turn left, go up as far as the set of traffic lights and turn left.
The place you're looking for is the second building on the right.
See, was that hard?
If you would only listen to me more often, you'd be better off.
So well, the woman was obviously a little bit angry that the guy refused to admit that
he was lost.
She's very frustrated.
And this has been in movies and in books and all sorts of things.
This kind of story of the man not wanting to ask for directions.
And so he keeps saying, listen, I've got these excuses.
I'm taking the scenic route, for example.
And that's our first word for today on Language Takeaway.
So as you say, the scenic route, what does he mean by that?
Okay, route is like a path or a trail or kind of like the way that you go somewhere.
So the route to my house.
But in this case, the scenic route or the scenic route, you can say in both ways, is
the most beautiful way to go.
It's usually the longer one.
So you can say, oh, it's just the scenic route.
It's not really true.
It's just the longer route.
So that's the excuse that he's giving her.
He's like, no, I'm not lost.
We're taking longer because, well, we're taking the beautiful route.
All right, with all the trees and the animals and the lakes.
No, I don't.
I don't buy it.
I don't believe this.
We need a GPS.
Okay, GPS, global positioning system.
So many people have these in their cars these days.
This is like an electronic map that will use your location to show you where to go.
It's very useful.
And especially in places like the United States that have streets that are clearly marked
and it's just a little bit easier to get around.
You can just get in your car, type in the address you want to go to and the thing talks
to you.
It says turn left, go straight, turn right.
Creepy.
So this is a very useful device.
It's like a computer that you use in your computer, a GPS.
All right, so she's talking about the GPS and then at the end of that line, she says,
this is so typical.
So what?
Getting lost.
All right, getting lost is so typical.
So something that is typical is common.
This is so normal.
This is so typical.
This is so something you normally do.
So what other examples could we give with the word typical?
Something that is typical?
Okay, well, you can have a behavior like this.
What he did was typical.
We can also say, in my typical Saturday, I wake up late and drink a coffee and take a
nap.
So it's common, it's regular, it's frequent maybe.
Or you go out to dinner and your friend is late.
You say, oh, this is so typical of him.
Right, he's always late.
All right, and we have one last set of words here.
And when the guy was giving him instructions, he said, you know what, go left, go right,
And then he said, until you reach the set of traffic lights.
So what is a traffic light?
Well, you know what a light is.
You know what traffic is.
Traffic is cars driving on the road, trucks, things like that.
So traffic light is a special light with three colors, red, yellow, and green.
And it tells you if you can stop or go.
So they're also called stop lights, right?
So stop lights and traffic lights is the same thing.
Usually they hang from above the street.
Words and phrases there.
Why don't we listen to our dialogue again and we'll be back in just a little bit.
All right, we've got some great phrases coming up in Fluency Builder.
So the first phrase that we're going to look at is what the wife said at the very beginning.
She said, we have been going around in circles for the past hour.
Going around in circles.
So we could say we've been driving in circles.
In circles means you've been making the same route over and over and over again.
You keep seeing the same house, the same tree, the same house, the same tree.
So this means we're not going anywhere.
You could also say, Marco, I wish you had brought the map.
We've been walking in circles for two hours.
So you can use it if you're driving or if you're walking in any situation like that.
All right, so going around in circles.
Now, moving on, the guy was a little bit irritated with her and he said something that's a little
bit impolite.
He said, you know what?
I'm going to ask for directions if it will shut your trap.
Impolite, this is rude.
Yeah, this is very rude.
So be careful when you use this.
You can say, hey, shut your trap.
Okay, so shut means to close.
But trap, this is your mouth.
So your mouth is a trap.
It's kind of like a trap.
In this case, shut your trap is a set phrase and it means shut up.
Be quiet.
Stop talking.
So how can we say this in a nicer way?
For example, I've heard people say your yap.
Shut your yap.
Yeah, shut your yapper.
I would say, can you please stop talking or can we have some quiet time now?
Can we have some quiet time?
Yeah, that's a polite way.
The rude way is shut up.
Shut up.
Shut your mouth.
That's very direct though, right?
Very rude.
Okay, so shut your trap.
Shut your trap.
And then the wife said, well, see, there you go.
We got directions.
We're going to get there now.
And was that hard?
If you would only listen to me more often, you would be better off.
So the guy would be better off.
That doesn't really make much sense.
To be better off.
Okay, so you have to think of this as a phrase, not about the individual words.
To be better off means to be happier or in some way better.
So for example, if I earned more money, I think I'd be better off.
Okay, I'd have a nicer life.
To be happier, maybe more successful.
If you only listened to me, you would be better off means you would make better decisions.
You would have a better situation.
So I could say, if she got a divorce, she would be better off.
Her life would improve.
This is a great, great, very useful phrase.
Very useful.
So why don't we listen to the dialogue for the very last time and we'll be back to talk
a little bit more with you.
So the whole thing about men asking for directions, why do you think men don't like to ask for
directions?
Well, it depends on the person, but I think a lot of people don't like to admit that they
don't know.
Because if you ask for directions, it means I don't know where I'm going.
I need help.
So this is one problem.
The other problem is sometimes directions are bad.
I think so too.
Sometimes when you receive an invitation or instructions on how to get to someone's house,
they're very ambiguous.
They're like, you know, you pass the dog that's sitting at the corner and you're like, there's
no dog.
I know someone who lives in Costa Rica and her address is go down the main street, take
the second left after the post office and after that, take the right after the general
store and 400 paces is the house.
So there's no address.
There's no address.
It's, you know, so these instructions can be very confusing, very vague, like you said.
So I think there's a couple of different problems potentially.
I also heard a joke the other day about a kid asked his mom, he said, Hey, why was Moses
leading everyone through the desert for 40 years?
And she's like, because he refused to ask for directions.
Funny.
I like that.
I was going to say why, because he's going in circles.
So if you have any questions about today's lessons or comments, maybe you can tell us,
do you like to ask for directions or do you like to figure things out alone?
My name is Kathryn and today we have an elementary level lesson for you all about computers.
So we are going to take a look at some of the basic parts of a computer and also about
bad programs that could affect your computer and make it not work.
So to get going, we have a verb for you that we're going to look at in vocabulary preview.
So today on vocabulary preview, we have a verb as you said, and it's to crash.
This has a couple of different meanings, but in today's dialogue, this means for your computer
to shut down or to freeze or to stop working.
So maybe you heard of a car crash, right?
When two cars, bam, hit each other.
In this case, your computer is just not working anymore.
It stopped working.
It freezes.
So you can't use it.
So my computer crashed is a way to say my computer stopped working.
So that's a word that we're going to listen in our dialogue today.
Why don't we jump right into it and we'll be back shortly.
Thanks for calling one, two, three tech help.
I'm Todd.
Can you help me on my computer?
It's okay, sir.
I turned on my laptop and it broke.
I mean, the monitor went black.
Okay, sir.
It sounds like you might have a virus.
I don't feel sick.
Let me check.
No fever.
No, your computer might have a virus.
I mean, it has a bad program on it.
Maybe that's why it crashed.
I recommend that you run an antivirus program in order to safely remove any unwanted spyware
or trojans.
Wait a minute.
Crash, spyware, trojans.
Where?
When?
So lots of great technology words today.
Let's take a look at a few of them in Language Takeaway.
So let's start off with our first word.
You've probably heard it before, but let's go over it just in case.
A laptop.
Laptop.
A laptop is a kind of computer.
We have desktop, laptop.
So your lap is the top part of your legs.
So a laptop computer is a small portable computer that you can take with you anywhere.
A lot of students have laptops and businessmen as well.
So you mentioned the opposite would be a desktop.
So it sits on top of a desk.
So both a desktop and a laptop have monitors, a computer monitor.
So a monitor is like a TV for your computer.
It's where you can see what you're doing.
So let's call it a monitor or a screen maybe.
You can also use the word screen, but monitor is the technical word for the, usually a box,
like a TV that goes with the desktop computer.
So Todd, the computer guy said, Hey, I think your computer might have a virus.
Ooh, that doesn't sound good.
A virus.
So I guess you know what a virus is when you get sick, right?
You get the flu or the cold.
You can say I have a virus, but how can a computer have a virus?
This means it's a program that is designed to hurt your computer.
So it's like your computer is sick and it doesn't work.
So a virus might make your computer crash.
So in order to avoid this, what we need is an antivirus program.
So virus is a bad thing.
Antivirus is a good thing.
An antivirus program is a program that protects your computer from viruses.
So you would say antivirus.
You might've heard of a very famous program called Norton antivirus or McAfee antivirus.
These are brands.
So those are some of the main technical terms that we have on Language Takeaway.
Why don't we listen to our dialogue quickly once again.
Why don't we listen to our dialogue quickly again and we'll be back with Fluency Builder.
Thanks for calling 123 Tech Help.
My computer.
or Trojans.
Crash.
Spyware.
Trojans.
So now, let's start off with three key phrases on Fluency Builder.
This first phrase is one that I know you use a lot.
I use it too.
We say, oh man.
So now, depending on the tone, it can mean different things, right?
So in this case, what does it mean?
So the man who's having problems with his computer says, my computer.
He seems a little bit anguished.
So, it's an interjection.
So you can say, oh man, my computer crashed.
Oh man, you're always late.
Now you can also say it for maybe surprise.
Like oh man.
So when you're excited about something, oh man, this computer game is awesome.
So it's just a way of expressing maybe disappointment or in some cases, excitement.
So think about the way that you say it.
So now, the guy, Todd, he tells him, hey sir, it's okay.
So this might be funny sounding because we say calm.
So be calm.
This is a phrase.
It's almost like you're so upset and you're standing up.
So you tell someone to calm down.
So you might hear a parent say about their child, the child won't calm down.
What do I do?
So it's a phrase.
Let's use it together.
To calm down.
And now for our third phrase.
I mean.
So this is also an interjection and it's very, very, very common.
So you'll probably hear people when they're talking, they're like, oh, I went over there.
I mean, we went to this place.
It's an interjection.
And usually we say this when we want to correct what we just said.
For example, your computer might have a virus.
So the computer support man, Todd, he understands maybe this person doesn't know what a virus
So I mean, he's, he's changing what he just said.
We could say, oh, Saturday, I'm going to the movies.
I mean, Sunday, I'm going to the movies.
What are you doing on Sunday?
So you use it to correct yourself or maybe further explain something because maybe you
are talking about a topic and maybe the person is not understanding you so you want to make
it more clear.
Like, she was very angry at me.
I mean, of course she was because I did something wrong.
So it's a way to offer an explanation.
So try and use that one in your speech this week.
It's really, really great common English phrase.
Thanks for calling 123 tech help.
Crash?
Spyware?
Trojans?
So Marco, in today's dialogue, we heard a couple of strange words about computer viruses.
One of them you might be familiar with from Greek stories and fables.
A Trojan.
So it's a kind of bad software that will hurt your computer.
Yeah, it's a type of virus that comes in and it's supposed to be a good program or not
harm your computer, but it's really just a lie.
It's disguised as something else and then it starts to really ruin your computer.
They're very, very dangerous.
So why do you think it's called a Trojan?
Probably because of a Troy something, because it's very difficult like a Trojan.
Well, think about the story of the Trojan horse, right?
You know that story.
So back in ancient Greece, there was a war happening and Troy wanted to defeat its enemy
and they didn't know how to do it.
So they thought and thought and thought and they came up with an idea.
They would build a horse and they would give it as a gift, but inside the horse would be
warriors, fighters.
So when the city opened its doors to this wonderful gift, they would receive a horrible
gift and attack.
And so Trojan is like that.
It's like software that you think is safe, but then it attacks your computer by surprise.
They're very dangerous.
And now things have come up like Trojans and worms and a lot of different names for them.
But it's crazy now, although I hear Mac users don't have these problems.
If you use a Macintosh computer, you probably have very few problems with viruses and things
So we're all in favor for Mac users.
Have you had problems with a virus on your computer?
Have you ever called tech support?
My name is Catherine and today we have a very dramatic intermediate level lesson for you.
Today we're going to take a look at how a court works, for example in the United States.
So you see that in movies and TV shows a lot, you know, the judge and all that.
Many of you have seen the movie The Firm or 12 Angry Men.
These are classics in courtroom dramas we say.
So today we're in a courtroom and there are many characters who are trying to determine
if this person is innocent or guilty.
So let's take a listen and find out what's going on.
Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the jury, my client Robert Malone has been accused of
a crime he did not commit.
The prosecution has accused my client of being a pickpocket.
I know we have heard the testimony of many people here today.
People who claim the defendant, my client, stole their wallets.
I feel sorry for these victims.
I really do.
But my client is innocent.
Let's look at the facts.
Number one, these so-called witnesses did not actually see the defendant steal anything.
Number two, when the police stopped him, he did not have any of the stolen wallets.
There is no evidence.
Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the jury, I ask you to think carefully before giving
your verdict.
Look at the facts.
Look at the evidence.
My client is innocent.
Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, have you reached a verdict?
Yes, Your Honor.
Our verdict is not guilty.
You were great.
Thank you for all your hard work.
You're welcome, Robert.
I knew you were innocent, so my job was easy.
Take care of yourself, okay?
Thanks once again.
Hey, where's my wallet?
So you probably heard a lot of technical words that are specifically related to the courtroom,
to lawyers, and the laws.
The first Language Takeaway we're looking at today is all about people.
So people you will find in a courtroom.
Who's the first person on our list, Marco?
So the top person would be the judge.
Now you didn't really see this word judge in the dialogue, right?
You did hear though the phrase, Your Honor.
Your Honor.
So Your Honor.
So that's how you talk to a judge.
You always add Your Honor before it or something like that?
So you know we say Mr. President when we're talking to Barack Obama.
But if we're talking to a judge, he's a special person in American society.
So we call him or her Your Honor.
So we have the judge.
That's our first person.
Who else do we have?
So we have the judge and now we have a group of 12 people who will ultimately decide if
the person is guilty or not.
So these people are normal.
They come from all different parts of society and they will decide what to do with this
Is he guilty or is she innocent?
This group is called the jury.
So the jury is a group of normal citizens who will listen to both sides of the story
and will then decide if the person committed the crime or didn't commit the crime.
A jury.
And the big question is, who's fighting?
We have two sides.
Someone who is upset and someone who is defending themselves.
The person who is upset, this is the prosecution.
So the prosecution has a group of lawyers that are called the prosecutors, right?
And they're trying to prove that that person committed the crime.
For example, I say that Marco burned down my house.
I go to court, I say I am the prosecution.
I want him to pay me for my house.
So I'm the prosecution.
So you're trying to not only prove that I committed the crime, but also trying to get
me to pay for the damage that I caused.
So in this case, the prosecution says, this man stole my wallet.
He's a pickpocket.
And who's the pickpocket?
Or maybe the pickpocket.
Who's the other side of this?
The defendant.
Defend, defendant.
Think about the word here.
To defend is to stand up for yourself, to protect yourself.
So the defendant says, listen, no, that's not true.
I am not a pickpocket.
I didn't do that.
So we have the prosecution and the defense.
And the person who might be guilty, the person who did the thing or didn't do the thing,
is called the defendant.
So in your example again about the crime that maybe I burnt your house down or I didn't,
I would be the defendant and my lawyers would constitute my defense.
Yeah, they are your defense.
So very technical words, but the important thing to remember here is defendant.
So now we have one key element that is also a person.
We have the witness.
All right, so the basic idea like you said is we have to tell a story.
My story is that you burned down my house.
And you say, no, I didn't.
Prove it.
I say, I can.
Someone saw you with a lighter.
So this person is my witness.
That means that he or she saw what happened.
So someone who sees a crime is a witness to that crime.
So a lot of people are in the courtroom.
A lot of things are happening.
So I think we should listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back to look at some more
words on Language Takeaway Part 2.
I love it when we do this.
So many words.
So much language to take away.
So now we're going to take a look at the second part of language takeaway where we have another
set of four words that we want to take a look at.
The first is actually two words.
We have two opposites.
So you said earlier, the jury has to make a decision.
The jury has to decide, is the defendant innocent or guilty?
These are two important adjectives.
Innocent.
What does this mean?
So if he is innocent, that means he did not commit the crime.
He is not responsible for what happened.
He did not steal the wallets.
So we often say babies are so innocent.
They can't do anything.
They can't do anything wrong.
So guilty would be the opposite.
So usually when someone is guilty, they're sad, they feel bad, you want them to pay you.
And they go to jail.
In bad situations, they go to jail.
If you burn down my house, of course you're going to go to jail.
So guilty means you did a crime.
You did a bad thing.
So we talked about the prosecution and the defense of the defendant.
And what happens is they also present some key elements that will prove if the person
is innocent or guilty.
And those elements are called evidence.
So back to this idea, we tell a story.
Maybe a witness can help us tell our story.
But as you say, evidence is stuff.
It's things.
So in the case of the house, I could say you have matches and you smell like smoke and
oil.
This is evidence for me to use to show that you are guilty.
So in this case, do we have any evidence?
There's no evidence, says the defendant.
So evidence is proof.
It's physical proof.
And most of the times when you see movies or TV shows, they will find, I don't know,
like maybe a fingerprint that's evidence or somebody's glasses.
A cell phone.
So evidence.
This is very important when you want to build a case.
Finally, at the end of a trial, we have a verdict.
Now, what is a verdict?
Well a verdict is a final decision or a conclusion in which the jury says, yeah, the person is
guilty or he's not guilty, he's innocent.
So we use this word usually to reach a verdict.
The jury reaches a verdict.
Now it's interesting why we say to reach because a jury is not just one person.
A jury is many people.
And so these people have to decide together.
They have to argue.
They have to make a conclusion that everyone agrees on.
And this is to reach a conclusion, to reach a verdict because they have to travel there.
They have to go together and figure it out.
That's very, very important.
So the jury reaches a verdict.
And we did have one other phrase that's very interesting.
It doesn't quite fit with the other ones.
We heard this phrase from the defendant.
The lawyer says, so these so-called witnesses didn't actually see anything.
What is so-called?
So he's being sarcastic when he uses this phrase, so-called, right?
That's why even his tone changes, these so-called witnesses.
So it's a way of expressing sarcasm.
He's saying they say they're witnesses, but they're not really because they didn't see
anything.
So so-called means you say that they are, but they're not really.
I could also say, your so-called lawyer thinks he can help you, but he can't.
That means I don't think your lawyer is very good.
I don't think he's a real lawyer.
Or sometimes people say, my so-called friend stood me up last night.
Oh, so it's not really a friend.
He's not really a friend.
Let's listen to this dialogue one more time.
Really think about some of the words you heard today, and we'll be back in a moment.
Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the jury.
My client, Robert Malone, has been accused of a crime he did not commit.
So now a very interesting situation with the courtroom dramas.
And I've heard that all the people in the jury have to agree in order for them to reach
a verdict, right?
So if one of them is not convinced that the person is, for example, guilty, then they
have to keep on deliberating.
That's the word, right?
So basically, the jury is always alone in a room.
Maybe they have a guard, but they're not supposed to talk to journalists or friends of the defendant
or anyone because their decision is supposed to be pure.
So they talk, and sometimes it takes 10 minutes.
Everyone agrees this person is guilty or this person is innocent.
But sometimes they don't agree.
And it can be one day, two days, a week, two weeks, a month trying to decide what to do.
I remember in the OJ Simpson case, the jury took a long time to figure out what they were
going to do.
And they said that the jury are common citizens.
They're normal people.
So what happens in their jobs if they can't go to work because they're doing this?
Well, in America, this job is called jury duty.
And so someone will send you a letter, and they say, listen, you need to come do jury
duty and you help be a part of the jury.
And your job, they can't make you come because this is a service for the government.
So it's above everything else.
It's above.
You get your normal pay.
There's no problem.
But it just don't work.
So they can't fire you if you're in jury duty for like five days or a month or whatever.
No, they can't.
That's illegal.
That's really interesting.
But a lot of people I've heard don't like to go to jury duty for some reason.
Is it tedious?
No, it's probably very boring.
I've never done it, but it's probably very boring.
I would imagine so.
Well, that's a very interesting topic.
I'm sure in your countries, laws are handled differently.
Maybe you don't have a courtroom.
Maybe you have like in England, people wear wigs.
And black robes.
So let us know how it works in your countries.
We'll see everyone at our website EnglishPod.com.
And of course, if you have any questions or comments, you can leave those there as well.
See you on the website and happy studies.
Hello everyone and welcome to another great lesson here at EnglishPod.
My name is Catherine and today we've got an upper intermediate level lesson for you all.
We're going to talk a little bit about business and specifically we are in a business meeting
where we're trying to sell something to someone.
So you're going to hear a lot of talk about chocolate or in this case gourmet bonbons.
Gourmet bonbons.
This is another word for chocolate candies or candies.
So a bonbon is kind of like round usually, right?
Usually, yes.
So let's get started and listen to today's dialogue.
I'm glad you could find time to meet with me, Mr. Johnson.
I can't think of a nicer environment for our meeting today.
The ambience here is lovely.
If possible, I always combine business with pleasure.
Now let's hear more about these chocolates you're offering.
Well, as you know, I have recently become the sole distributor for Granger's gourmet
bonbons here in the United States.
They're a new manufacturer and are looking to break into the luxury market.
Naturally, your restaurant sprang into my mind immediately.
I think your brand exemplifies many of the same traits as Granger's and serving these
chocolates would really add to your reputation for providing elegant, luxurious, first-class
dining.
Sounds interesting.
Gourmet chocolates.
Where are they produced?
Belgium?
Actually, the factory is located in Scotland.
I didn't think they were known for their luxury chocolate production.
That's what makes this such a fantastic opportunity.
The government is 100% supportive of creating new export markets and has guaranteed a low
tariff for all wholesale orders of over 1,000 units.
They've also reduced the red tape involved at customs as well.
Here, I brought these especially for you.
Try one.
Oh, thanks.
Creamy texture.
Very smooth.
Unique, aren't they?
I bet you've never tasted anything like it.
Quality is assured as I personally visit the factory to make sure no one's cutting corners
with the ingredients.
Only the creme de la creme make it through inspection.
Very interesting flavors.
Slightly spicy.
Very unique, that's for sure.
Exactly what are the ingredients?
I have it on highest authority that this traditional secret recipe has been handed down in the
Granger family for generations.
I'm sure you can keep a secret.
Buttermilk, cacao beans, sugar, and haggis.
What's haggis?
It's a traditional Scottish delicacy.
You take sheep's liver, heart, and lung and stuff it inside the sheep's stomach.
I'll get back to you.
Mr. Johnson.
So a lot of interesting vocab there.
The guy was trying to convince them about these chocolates but it turned out to be something
a little bit strange and we'll talk about that in a little while.
Before we get into that, why don't we take a look at seven key words that we have prepared
for you today on Language Takeaway.
So we've divided Language Takeaway into two parts today.
The first part is all about business and manufacturing.
So what's our first word, Marco?
So I talked about being the sole distributor for this company called Granger's Gourmet
Bonbons.
A distributor.
This is a person or a company and the distributor is someone who distributes or sells a product,
So the factory will make them.
He will get all these goods from the factory and then he will be the one that gives it
to the different retail stores.
So he can have many clients and he is the main person who you get it from.
So obviously they don't get it directly from the factory.
So this person, a distributor or a company, is in the middle of the transaction.
On one side there is the manufacturer and on the other side there is the retail market
or stores.
And as you said, that's our second key word today, manufacturer.
Manufacturer, again, is a person or a company that makes a good.
So for example, a television manufacturer makes TV.
It's like a factory.
So they manufacture things.
They make them.
So we've got distributors who are moving goods.
We have manufacturers who are making them.
But what happens when we want to move a good out of a country?
So that is our third word for today.
Usually in customs, we have to pay a tariff for these goods or a tax.
So a tariff is a special kind of tax that you pay when you are trying to export or send
outside of your country goods that you've made in that country.
So for example, if I make 100 TVs in America, but I want to sell these TVs to someone in
Mexico, I have to pay a tariff.
I have to pay like $10 to the government that allows me to send these out of the country.
So that is a tariff.
And now when he was talking about tariffs and how the government is reducing the tariffs
in order to motivate a business, he talked about also that the government is reducing
or cutting the red tape.
So he says, listen, they've also reduced the red tape involved at customs.
So this means that before they were encountering some problems at customs, because customs,
you know, there's a lot of paperwork, there's a lot of taxes, there's a lot of information
you have to provide.
It's a hassle.
A lot of paperwork.
So this kind of paperwork, bureaucracy, this is called red tape in English.
For example, I would love to get a visa for my foreign husband, but there's a lot of red
tape.
There's a lot of work that we have to do.
There's a lot of bureaucratic processes that you have to do.
So red tape, this means a lot of paperwork, a lot of work that you have to do.
So those are our key words that are related to business.
Now let's move on to a couple of different adjectives.
The first one, when he talked about chocolates, he said elegant.
He said that something is elegant.
Elegant.
This is a great adjective.
You're going to see this on a lot of luxury brand items.
Elegance means something is elegant if it is classy, if it looks really good and rich.
Or you could say that dress is very elegant, that mink coat is very elegant.
This is a positive thing.
So something that looks kind of expensive at times as well.
Another word that means looking expensive or elegant is luxurious.
So luxurious comes from the noun luxury.
Luxury, luxurious.
So we can say that the executive suites at this hotel are very luxurious.
They have a jacuzzi, a king-size bed, expensive silk sheets.
The best quality materials.
So you can say that elegant and luxurious kind of go hand in hand.
Although elegant, you usually say about someone or their clothing or even a car, but luxurious
is more like a place or an object.
And then we have one final word that also describes something that is very rare or very
good and rich, a delicacy.
Yeah, actually this one is a noun, it's a thing.
So we can say that this is a Scottish delicacy or what are the delicacies in your country?
So delicacy is something that's special.
So for example, you've told me that in Ecuador, there are some interesting food delicacies.
Delicacies?
Little animals.
For example, guinea pigs.
So it's not really a delicacy, although kind of because guinea pigs are expensive comparatively
to chickens, for example.
So it is considered to be something that you only eat on special occasions.
And in East Asia, many people consider shark's fin soup to be a delicacy.
It's a special dish.
So we can say that it's usually about food and it's rare, something that's rare or special
or also can be very expensive.
That's right, a delicacy.
So a lot of great interesting words on language takeaway.
Why don't we move on now to fluency builder?
This first phrase is actually something I try to do as often as possible, but it's usually
very difficult.
I combine business with pleasure.
To combine business with pleasure.
Now this is a whole phrase and this talks about doing business, but at the same time,
doing it in a fun way or an interesting way.
And pleasure here means something that is fun or entertainment even.
So for example, going out to dinner with your company is a way to combine business with
pleasure.
Or meeting a client at a bar is combining business with pleasure.
So you're combining things that are fun and things that are work related.
Because you can have a business meeting in a boardroom or in a business or in a meeting
room, but if you have the same business meeting at a bar where you're talking and laughing,
but also at the same time talking business, then you're combining business with pleasure.
And now for our second phrase, it's more about cheating, right?
Somebody that is cheating or maybe not doing things correctly.
They are cutting corners.
So cutting corners is another way to say cheating.
For example, I've seen people, students cutting corners with their studies.
You think about cutting corners, it means that you're not going the long way.
You're cutting, you're cheating by going the shorter way.
You're taking a shortcut.
Taking a shortcut.
So for example, instead of studying for that final test in math, some people write the
formulas on their hands.
This is a way to cut corners.
Instead of studying, you actually cheat by putting it on your hand, making it easier.
So to cut corners is to cheat or to try to take the shortcut, but it kind of has a negative
connotation, right?
Oh, definitely.
So most people will say, don't cut corners.
In the end, it's not worth it.
And for our final phrase, we have one that it's in French.
So this one is in French, but it's also a very common English phrase.
That's why we're going to teach it to you.
The creme de la creme.
So literally, in translated from French, that means the cream of the cream.
In English, we would say that it's the best of the best.
The best of the best.
The very top.
So that's what this phrase means.
The most excellent.
So you could say, Harvard University attracts the creme de la creme of American high school
students.
So the very best of American high school students.
So that phrase, it's in French, but you can say it in English, right?
Like fiance, for example.
Fiance.
Creme de la creme.
So those are the words that we've stolen from French and we use in English.
So don't worry about how you pronounce it in English.
We just say creme de la creme.
So why don't we listen to this dialogue for the last time, and we'll be back in just a
bit.
Well, as you know, I have recently become the sole distributor for Granger's Gourmet
Bonbons here in the United States.
I think your brand exemplifies many of the same traits as Granger's, and serving these
Hmm, sounds interesting.
The government is 100% supportive of creating new export markets and has guaranteed a
low tariff for all wholesale orders of over 1,000 units.
Hmm, hmm.
Yes, very interesting flavors.
Hmm, very unique, that's for sure.
Haggis.
Mr. Johnson?
So now this Scottish delicacy.
What is this haggis?
Okay, haggis, I've never actually eaten it.
It does sound pretty disgusting.
It's a Scottish delicacy that I think involves stuffing like what?
What do we hear?
Pig liver?
Let's see this again.
So basically you take a sheep's liver, a heart, and a lung, and you put it inside the sheep's
stomach and you serve that.
And you cook it.
Yeah, you cook it like that.
You cook it.
And so it's like all the insides of a sheep.
It kind of sounds disgusting, but I'm pretty sure it tastes pretty good.
It probably tastes good.
Because it's a Scottish delicacy, so eh.
Yeah, I don't know.
Although I cannot imagine eating it in a chocolate.
This is disgusting.
I've heard of countries where they take a chicken, they stuff it with something, like
they have a stuffing, and then they put the chicken inside a goat, and then the goat inside
a bigger animal, and then they cook all that together.
And then you have this amazing, obviously it's huge, they use these big brick ovens
to cook them, but you have this platter with three different types of meats.
We have that in America.
It's called a turducken.
Turducken.
Turkey, ducken, turkey, duck, and chicken.
So you have a chicken inside of a duck, which you put inside of a turkey.
Turkey, wow.
And you bake it.
Wow, how does it taste?
It's a very special taste.
So if you want to know what your national delicacy is, do you have a delicacy in your
home country?
Let us know on EnglishPod.com.
We're always curious to talk about food, but we would love to have you practicing on the
website and asking any questions that you may have.
So we'll see everyone there.
Hello everyone and welcome to another lesson here at EnglishPod.
And I'm Catherine and today we have an elementary level lesson all about life with a roommate.
So sometimes during college you have to live with a roommate because living alone is too
Also, after college I know that a lot of people who are just starting their jobs often live
with a roommate to save some money.
Or maybe your girlfriend could be considered kind of like your romantic roommate.
I hope not in the sense of today's lesson.
We're talking about problems with a roommate.
So let's listen to this dialogue and we'll be back in a moment.
Charlie, do you have a second?
Yeah, what's up?
Well, I went and paid the bills today and you still haven't given me your half.
Yeah, I wanted to talk to you about that.
I agreed we would go halves on all the bills, but frankly I think it's unfair.
Unfair?
Well, you have long hair and use the hair dryer every morning.
I don't.
You leave your computer on all night downloading torrents.
You see what I'm getting at here?
You leave the air conditioner on day and night.
You also take 30 minute showers, which means you're using way more gas and water than me.
Well, while we're on the subject, stop bringing your friends over for drinks every weekend.
You always leave a mess and keep me up all night.
Maybe you should just move out and find another place.
Maybe you should move out.
So we have a couple of different words that we're going to take a look at now in Language
So the first word is a dreaded word that means that most people don't like it.
They fear it.
This is bills.
You have to pay your bills.
So a bill is the paper that tells you how much you have to pay.
So you can have a gas bill.
An electricity bill.
A cable bill.
Or even at the restaurant, you ask for the bill.
All right, so this is the amount of money you need to pay.
And usually at the end of the month, you receive many, many bills in the mail and you have
to pay the companies like the gas company and the electricity company.
So those are bills.
A singular would be a bill.
And so this is how the argument starts.
The two roommates decide that they have to pay the bills, but they don't want to split
the bills in half, go halves.
They have to pay their own.
And so one person says, listen, this isn't fair.
Okay, so we understand what it is to download something or you download this podcast, but
a torrent, what is that?
That's kind of technical.
That is.
So a torrent is a kind of file that you can download from the internet.
So basically when you want to download a movie or some music from the internet, you go to
a website that will connect you to someone who owns this movie or book or music and they'll
have a special file that's called a torrent file and that's what you download.
So it's a new way of downloading files off the internet from many people, kind of like
a peer sharing.
So when one person disappears or goes offline, it shares you with another person.
So those are torrents.
And now, well, they kept arguing about you have to pay this, I have to pay that.
So you said, you know what, you should just move out.
Ooh, so to move out, this is a phrase that has two words to move out.
It means to leave this house forever, this apartment.
So that means to find a new place to live.
So I can say, oh, I'm moving out this weekend.
That means I'm changing apartments.
Or my boyfriend just moved out.
That's really sad.
He left your house.
So that is to move out.
And now we have a word that is more colloquial of how to say a house or an apartment.
This is place.
So you just say a place.
So place normally is a location.
Where is this place?
But we could say, hey, we're going to have dinner at my place.
Would you like to come?
So that means we're going to have dinner at my house.
My place, his place.
His place.
Or you have a really nice place.
So that means you have a really nice house.
So four key words today when we listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back in a
little bit.
I agreed we would go halves on all the bills, but frankly, I think it's unfair.
Well, you have long hair and use the hairdryer every morning.
All right, we are back and we've got some great phrases today coming up in Fluency Builders.
Let's take a look at some of those.
All right, so the first phrase that we have, very common, very, very common, but also
very difficult for English learners to answer this question.
All right, what's up?
So if somebody says, what's up, what does that mean?
That means what's going on?
What's new?
How is it going?
So how should you answer this?
Okay, so think of what's up as being a question about what's new, what's happening.
You can say, what's up?
Oh, not much.
Okay, what's up means what's new?
Oh, not much is new.
Everything is the same.
So what's up?
You could say, hey, hi, how are you?
It's another way to say hi.
But you can't say, this guy.
Right, or sometimes English learners will say, fine, thank you, because they think that
what's up means how are you?
No, that's different.
So you cannot say, fine, thank you, fine, well.
These are words that answer how are you questions, but this isn't a how are you question.
This is a what's new question.
What's new or hi.
Okay, so somebody says, what's up?
You can say, not much, or you can say, hey, what's up?
You can say, what's up back?
What's up with you?
Yeah, what's up with you?
Okay, so that's our first phrase.
Now, when the guy was talking about the hair dryer and the computer, he finished off that
paragraph by saying, you see what I'm getting at here?
Okay, you're doing this.
You use the hair dryer, you leave the computer on.
Do you see what I'm getting at here?
First phrase, do you see what I'm getting at?
It means, do you understand what I'm talking about?
Do you see my point?
That means I haven't said exactly what I mean, but you should understand what I'm saying.
So he's saying, you're wasting electricity.
You use all of these services more than I do.
And we could say, maybe Marco didn't get a good grade in his English test last week.
I say, listen, maybe it has to do with your study habits or how much you love video games
or how little time you spend at school.
Do you see what I'm getting at?
Okay, so you're not saying directly that I don't study.
You're just telling me the reasons, maybe why as to why I'm not studying.
Like a hint.
Okay, so that's what you say when you don't tell somebody directly what the problem is.
You say, you see what I'm getting at here?
Getting at means hinting.
Okay, and our last phrase, when they kept talking about the bills, one of the person
said, you are using way more gas and water than me.
So what about this way more?
Way more.
Way means much or a lot.
So we could say, you are using a lot more water than I am.
Or you're using way more water.
This is very spoken language.
This is not written language.
So don't write this down on your tests.
But way more means a lot more, much more.
Okay, you can say, Bob is way more attractive than Bill.
Or this is way more interesting than that show.
Okay, so you can say way more instead of much more or a lot more, but it's usually spoken
All right, let's listen to our dialogue for the last time and we'll be back in a bit to
So Marco, have you ever had any of these problems with a roommate?
I've actually stayed away from roommates because of issues like this.
You mean you have not had many roommates because you're afraid of this situation?
Yeah, I've always actually tried to live on my own by myself, like in a small apartment
or studio, or if I have to have a roommate, maybe just one, not a house full of roommates.
Because I think the more people there are, the little bit more complicated it gets.
And if it's just two, it's a little bit simpler.
This is true, although sometimes I think it depends on the people that you're sharing
a house with.
I've had one awkward experience where people did not want to pay ever, and they were always
late with their payments, and one situation where people were very good about it, so always
remembered and were very helpful.
Yeah, I think it's hard to live with someone always, of course.
Even if you start living with your girlfriend or boyfriend or you get married, it's kind
of different to live with someone.
And especially money-wise, I think it always complicates things with people.
So I think you're right, though.
If there's two people, it's very easy to share the bills.
But if there's five people or six people, it's very hard to find out who spent more
money or what the rules are.
Yeah, so it can get a little bit complicated.
But I'm sure a lot of our listeners have probably had roommates before, maybe in college, maybe
even now.
So let's hear those experiences and maybe those good and bad stories about living with
other people.
So please get in touch with us.
There's lots of places for you to ask questions and to post your own experiences with roommates.
We hope to see you there, and until next time.
Thank you very much.
Hello everyone and welcome to another lesson at EnglishPod.
And I'm Catherine and today we're talking about shopping online.
So this is an elementary level lesson.
We are going to shop for things online.
So before we get started with this dialogue, let's take a look at one word we have for
you on vocabulary preview.
Okay the word we're looking at today is eBay.
eBay.
Okay, so this is a proper noun.
It's an actual website, ebay.com.
It's kind of like a store on the internet for people who want to buy used things.
Okay, so maybe if you have a TV that you don't want anymore, you go on eBay, you put pictures
of it online and you offer it and anyone can buy it.
You can be a buyer, that means you buy things or a seller.
So you sell things.
So this is interesting.
Usually you find used things on eBay but you can also find new things.
It's kind of like the Chinese website Taobao.
I've actually even seen people selling cars on eBay.
Cars?
I can't imagine buying a car on the internet.
No, they have even very luxurious cars on eBay.
So we'll talk about more about online shopping a little bit later on.
But now, why don't we listen to a dialogue for the first time and then we'll come back
in just a little bit.
I'm just looking for a nice pillow on eBay.
You're shopping for a pillow online?
I don't have to leave the house or browse a dozen stores to find what I'm looking for.
This way, I just search for it online quick and easy.
But how do you pay for it?
How do you know you aren't going to be ripped off by the seller?
Well, the website handles a point system where if the seller does something wrong, people
comment negatively and then you know that he or she may not be trustworthy.
Wow, that sounds pretty safe.
So how do you pay?
Do you need a credit card?
You can use a credit card or your debit card.
They also let you use the PayPal system, which is really safe and fast.
I have never had any problems with someone hacking my information or anything.
Do you think I can find a sweater for my dog online?
You can find anything.
Are you sure you want to start shopping online though?
Once you step into this world, there is no turning back.
So now we have four key words for you on Language Takeaway.
The first word you might have already heard us use already.
We're talking about going on the internet to do something.
So we say to go online.
So by saying that you are going online, you say that you are using the internet.
So you can shop for something online.
Online means the internet, right?
On the internet.
So we don't say in the internet.
We say we're on the internet.
For example, he's been on the internet all day long.
I want to use the computer.
Okay, so I can say he's been online all day long.
So that is online.
And when we go online and we are looking through different websites or maybe we are looking
at items on eBay, we are browsing.
Okay, the verb here is to browse.
Now to browse is to look at, but not carefully.
Just to look at with maybe the idea to shop or to buy later.
So you can use browse for online things, but you can also use it for physical things like
you are in a shop, you are browsing.
So I can go to a clothing store and I can browse.
For example, if the woman at the clothing store says, would you like to buy something?
I say, no, I'm just browsing.
I'm just looking.
And then when they were talking about eBay and how it works, the person mentioned that
they have a point system.
A point system.
Now, this is something you hear about a lot on websites these days.
For example, many websites have different users.
And so how do I know which users or which in this case, sellers are the best?
Well, we have a point system.
More points means better, fewer points means worse.
You might also call this a star system.
So basically a point system is a way to show who is a very good community member and who
is not.
And that takes us to our next word.
So if a person has a lot of points in their point system, that means they are trustworthy.
Trustworthy is an adjective.
He is trustworthy.
They are trustworthy.
This means that I can trust them.
They are reliable.
So I don't think they will lie to me.
I don't think they will cheat me.
So a person can be trustworthy.
A company can be trustworthy.
Or you could say, he never pays me back.
He's not very trustworthy when I lend him money.
So four key words there.
Why don't we listen to them again in our dialogue?
And we'll be back shortly.
comment negatively.
And then you know that he or she may not be trustworthy.
So now we have three key phrases that we saw in our dialogue.
And let's take a look at those now in Fluency Builder.
Well, the first phrase we have here is related to that last word we had, trustworthy.
Someone is not trustworthy if they will rip you off.
Okay, so it's a phrasal verb, to rip you off or to rip off.
To rip someone off.
So, they ripped him off.
He ripped her off.
This means to steal money from someone or to cheat someone.
So, let's say if a pair of shoes usually in a store costs $50 and then your friend sells
them to you for $200, your friend ripped you off.
He ripped you off.
That's not a good friend.
He's not very trustworthy.
So now when they were talking about how safe it is to make purchases online, the person
explained that it's pretty safe and that no one has ever hacked his information.
So, this is an important verb that has to do with the internet.
To hack information is to steal information on the internet.
So, someone who hacks, who steals this information is called a hacker.
And this is something that's very bad.
We want to go to secure and safe websites because we don't want people to hack our personal
information.
Okay, so the verb is to hack.
And finally, in the end when they were going to look for a sweater for a dog, the person
said, you know what?
Are you sure you want to start to shop online?
Once you do this, there is no turning back.
Oh, I love this phrase.
There's no turning back.
So this is, well, you think about someone who's leaving.
You say there's no turning back.
You can't go back.
You can't return to where you were.
This is something we say as a warning.
So listen, this is your final decision.
If you say yes, you cannot change your mind.
You cannot say no later.
So you can't turn back later.
So there's no turning back now.
Okay, no turning back.
Interesting phrases, keywords and everything.
So we should listen to this dialogue one last time and we'll be back to talk with you a
Alright so now talking about online shopping, have you ever bought anything online?
Use your credit card online.
I have.
I've used my credit card on Amazon.com to purchase books on the internet.
But I know that you are much more of a fan of online shopping.
You use the Chinese website Taobao all the time.
Well actually, I wrote this dialogue and it's kind of based on something real because you
know sometimes going to the stores, it can be great and you can see things and physically
touch them.
But I'm a little bit more practical.
I know exactly what I want or maybe I saw it.
So I don't want to have to go to the stores and deal with haggling or negotiating or sometimes
it's even more expensive.
So I just, from the comfort of my own home, just put in my debit card number and buy things
online and I get it delivered overnight.
Well, and you never go shopping now.
Well, shopping you have to go to the clothing store for clothes, the video game store for
video games and on the internet, it's all in one place.
You're at home, you're in your pajamas, you use your credit card.
And the cool thing is that you can even, sometimes you want to buy small things.
Like in this case, maybe a pillow or you want to buy, like recently I bought some candles,
some decorative candles.
So I don't know, do you really want to go out downtown, look for the candle shop where
you can get them?
You can just do it online.
Do it online.
Let us know, do you shop on the internet?
If you do, what kind of services do you use?
What stores do you go to?
realidadv.com
My name is Catherine and today we've got an upper intermediate level lesson for you all
about money.
We are going to talk about the stock market.
So a very interesting topic, very current as well because well throughout the world
stock markets are not doing very well.
That's right and you may have seen on the television a lot of information about this.
So today we're going to hopefully explain some of the things and phrases and words that
you've been hearing.
But first we've got a couple of important indicators, a couple of acronyms actually
that you're going to hear about.
So let's look at those in today's vocabulary preview.
So the first word that we have on vocabulary preview is the NASDAQ.
NASDAQ.
N-A-S-D-A-Q.
So this is basically the American stock market.
Now it's a really, really long acronym so we're not going to get into it but it is basically
the American stock market where all these companies are trading stock, publicly traded
companies.
So publicly traded companies, you're basically trading their stocks through NASDAQ.
And now the next one that we have is an indicator which tells us how well some companies or
some stock are doing and that's the Dow Jones indicator.
Dow Jones indicator.
So maybe if the Dow Jones is really low for something, we think, man, it's not doing so
If it goes up, things are improving.
So usually the Dow Jones has the, it's based upon the 50 biggest companies in the United
States, the 50 biggest publicly traded companies.
Now you can divide it into like industrial companies or pharmaceutical companies, etc.
But in general, that's the indicator and how it works.
So we're going to listen to today's dialogue and find out how these words are used in context
and we're back in a moment to talk about what's going on.
Sorry to bother you, sir, but I have some bad news.
Well, the stock market just took a huge plunge and we've lost a lot of money.
There are many factors that weigh in, but NASDAQ is down 200 points.
The Dow Jones indicator also suffered.
Our portfolio is worth half of what it was worth one week ago.
How is this possible?
You are supposed to be talking to our stockbrokers and making sure that our securities and investments
are safe and making a profitable return.
I know, sir.
We didn't expect a bull market to become a bear market all of a sudden.
On the other hand, you still have some high yield trash bonds and government bonds that
will give us enough liquidity to cut our losses and reinvest in emerging markets.
We could potentially make this tragedy work for us and make us think outside the box.
Do what you have to do.
One other thing.
Don't tell the rest of the stockholders about this.
If they find out it's the end of this company.
So a lot of interesting words there.
I think a lot of them were very specific to the stock market and very, maybe a little
bit difficult.
Why don't we take a look at a couple of those and language takeaway.
Okay, so this first word is a very important word in banking and finance.
We talk about portfolios a lot.
So portfolio.
So basically a portfolio is the variety of things that you own.
For example, in the stock market, it could be stocks, it could be bonds, it can be mutual
funds, etc.
Or for example, if you're a company, your product portfolio could be all the products
that your company owns.
So in this case, our portfolio is worth half what it was a week ago.
And so this is a sentence that means, we've lost half of the money we invested.
All of our investments are in a portfolio.
We talk about them as a portfolio.
And when we lose money, we say our portfolio is worth less now than it was before.
So moving on, he starts to talk about the bull market and the bear market.
So what is this all about?
Well, a bull is an animal with horns.
And a bear is another animal.
So we're not talking about animals here.
We're talking about special finance phrases.
So the bull market would be, again, talking about companies and trading.
It would be maybe a market that's growing very rapidly.
That's very, very strong.
That's a bull market.
So people often talk about China's bull market, right?
How China continues to grow and grow and grow and grow.
But a market that slows down, like the United States last year, would be a bear market.
So think of a bear, maybe it's sleeping, it goes into hibernation.
That's a bear market.
So a slow market.
It's not really growing.
But talking about a portfolio again, we might have stocks.
But in this case, the two people are talking about their bonds.
So he says, you still have some high yield trash bonds and government bonds.
What's a high yield bond and what's a trash bond?
So when we think about the word yield is how much it gives, right?
So how much we are getting from it.
So something that is high yield means that you're getting a lot from it.
For example, this orange tree yields 300 oranges per year.
So how much we get from it.
So we're getting 300 oranges.
That's how much it's yielding.
And so basically that's what yield means.
So when we talk about trash bonds, this on the other hand, it's a word that's maybe a
little bit tricky, but a bond is a promise that you get from the seller that he's going
to pay you back the money that you give him with interest.
But a trash bond is a very risky bond.
It means that the seller might not pay you back because he's still trying to get all
the money.
Right, but a high yield trash bond means that you might make a lot of money from this bond
unless of course it's not very dependable.
So it's risky.
Of course, since it's riskier, it has more yield.
So high yields trash bond.
And then what about this?
They will give us liquidity to cut our losses.
Liquidity.
We hear all about liquidity in finance.
Maybe in your company, the accountant will talk about this.
And that's basically just to have money cash in hand.
So you have money to pay things or to buy things.
Not with...
So it's available.
Available, yeah.
Not with credit.
The opposite of credit.
Okay, liquidity.
And finally, instead, what are we going to do?
Let's think outside the box.
We could reinvest in emerging markets.
And this is a very hot topic lately, talking about emerging markets.
So to emerge means to come up, to rise.
Yeah, to come out.
So it's almost like new or growing markets.
So in this case, a market, an emerging market would be, for example, the Southeast Asian
market, which is growing quickly, or even you could say West African market.
We're talking about places in the world that aren't established.
They're not old and dependable.
They're new and exciting.
So they're coming up.
So that's an emerging market.
So a lot of very interesting words and phrases.
They're very related to our topic.
And so why don't we move on now.
Let's take a look at two key phrases on Fluency Builder.
This first phrase is something we've heard a lot about in the last year or two with things
not going so well in the world of finance.
The first one, here we go, to cut our losses.
Okay, so let's cut our losses.
So when you talk about cutting your losses, that means to try and stop losing money somehow,
maybe sell early.
So in this case, we're losing money.
Let's stop now.
Let's stop everything.
Cut our losses.
That means cut them away.
Forget about them.
Throw them away and start again.
Okay, so we could say, my business is failing.
I'm going to cut my losses, sell the business and start again.
So to cut your losses means to stop doing something, maybe sell it and stop losing money.
Basically, you accept the fact that you lost it.
You can't get it back and start again.
So when they were talking about investing in emerging markets, he said, well, maybe
we could do this and that would force us to think outside the box.
Okay, this is a great phrase and you might hear this in meetings a lot or from your manager.
What's going on here is these two people are talking about how they lost a lot of money.
The economy is bad and they've been doing things in a normal way for a long time.
It's not working.
That means let's be creative.
Let's try and discover new ways of doing things that will yield positive results.
This is a very, very common phrase, very widely used in business or when you're talking about
ideas is people tell you to think outside the box to maybe break some of the rules.
Don't just think the way that you always do.
Don't do the same thing over and over.
Do something new, be creative, come up with something great.
So that's thinking outside the box.
So a lot of great phrases there.
I think we've learned quite a bit.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue one last time and we'll be back to talk a little bit
more about this very interesting topic.
There are many factors that weigh in, but Nasdaq is down 200 points.
So I remember being a little kid and watching TV with my parents and on the news there was
always the business segment and in this you'd always hear the Nasdaq is down 10 points.
The Dow Jones Industrial today is down 10 points.
Yesterday was up two.
That's an average of H. Okay.
Yeah, it's very complicated, especially if you take a look also in the newspaper.
Sometimes it shows you different publicly traded companies and it has a bunch of numbers.
It's a very interesting topic.
It's almost a science, I think.
Very much a science and some people have made a lot of money playing the stock market and
trying to buy stocks when they're low, wait until they're high, sell them off and make
tons.
Yeah, it's pretty much analyzing risk.
So making calculated decisions and that's why they use all these formulas and all these
different ratios and ways to ponder how much they should invest or what would they gain.
So it's very, very interesting.
Many people compare it to gambling, but it's kind of like gambling but not really because
you don't really depend on luck.
You kind of make calculated decisions.
And sometimes you're trading for big, big companies or even parts of big markets like
parts of entire countries.
A lot of people, for example, stockbrokers will invest a group of workers' retirement
funds.
They will take those funds and be like, hey, you're maybe getting 5% from the bank for
keeping your money there.
Give me the money and I'll give you 25% yield on your investment.
And so obviously they're playing not only their reputation but also with other people's
life savings.
And that's why a lot of people lost money when two years ago the bubble really burst
in a lot of areas like real estate.
Stock prices went down.
The United States went into a recession.
And all these people's retirement funds, their savings, they lost it.
So you got to be careful with this kind of stuff and do your homework.
But that's about it for us today.
Hope that you've enjoyed this lesson.
If you have questions or comments, please do visit us on our website EnglishPod.com.
We'll see everyone there.
?? 1??
And today we're talking about office stuff, things in your office.
We are talking about secrets in the office or maybe specific little things that people
talk about behind other people's back.
Okay, bad things then.
Before we get going though, let's take a look at a phrase in today's vocabulary preview.
So the phrase for today is actually the same as the title for this lesson and that's office
gossip.
Okay, you all know what an office is.
What is gossip?
So to gossip means to talk about other people secretly or behind their backs or maybe talk
about other people's problems or private things.
So oh my God, did you hear?
John is totally going to break up with her.
So you're talking about people without them knowing.
So you're talking about their private things, their relationships, maybe you're even maybe
criticizing them.
So office gossip is talking about people in your office without them knowing.
So saying bad things about them.
So without any more delay, why don't we listen to this dialogue for the first time.
Hey, Eric, have you heard?
No, go on.
What's the latest office gossip?
Well, you didn't hear this from me, but the rumor is Paula is getting a promotion.
But she's a terrible worker and you can't trust her.
She's so two faced.
You can't believe anything she says.
Hey guys, what are you two whispering about?
Oh, hi, Paula.
I've got some good news.
I'm getting a promotion.
Eric and I were just saying that you were the best person for the job.
Yes, you're the best.
So we have four key words that we want to look at from this gossip dialogue.
So why don't we take a look at those now in Language Takeaway.
Okay, the first word is rumor.
Rumor.
Now this is an interesting word about gossip.
Yeah, a rumor.
So a rumor is a story that might or might not be true.
Okay, so I heard a rumor that they broke up yesterday.
Okay, so you're not sure if they broke up or no one has told you for a fact.
No, it means I probably heard it from someone else who heard it from someone else who heard
it from someone else who doesn't really know.
So rumors are maybe guesses about people and you don't know if they're true.
You see this a lot with famous people, movie stars.
They always talk about rumors that maybe they got married in secret or something.
There's a rumor that Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt are breaking up.
Okay, so we don't know if it's true.
That's a rumor.
So now the rumor that they heard was that this girl Paula is getting a promotion.
This is an important office word.
This means to be offered a better job in your company.
That means to move up.
To move up.
Alright, so this is a noun.
You get a promotion, right?
Yes, I got a promotion last year which also meant I got more money.
So that is a promotion.
Now when they were talking about the promotion, the girl said, I can't believe, the guy said,
and Eric said, I can't believe she's getting a promotion.
She's so two-faced.
Two-faced.
So think about what this means.
To have two faces.
To be two-faced means to have two different sides to your personality.
A good one and a bad one.
So like, I can be very nice to Marco.
Marco, wow, you look so good today.
You're such a nice guy.
You're such a hard worker.
And then, oh my God, Marco's such an idiot.
He's like never working and he's always on the phone.
Oh, hi Marco.
How are you doing?
That is two-faced.
That's very good.
Alright, so two-faced means to have two different sides to your personality.
Now it's interesting the way that you use this word, you say two-faced, right?
So you have to add the E-D at the end.
You can't say he is two-faced.
Or he has two-face.
No, it's an adjective.
So he's two-faced.
She is two-faced.
Okay, two-faced.
I don't like people who are two-faced.
And we have one final word and it's actually a verb when people talk like this.
When they're talking like this.
So they're talking quietly.
Very quietly.
To whisper.
So what are you whispering about?
So usually when people are whispering, they're talking about a rumor.
Or they're talking in secret.
You don't want somebody else to hear you.
So when you want to be very quiet, like at the movie theater, you whisper.
Whisper.
So those are four words for language takeaway.
Why don't we go back, listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back to take a look at
a couple of phrases.
Psst.
Go on, tell me.
Oh, hi Paula.
So now we have three key phrases from this great dialogue on Fluency Builder.
So this first one is the beginning to any great rumor.
We say, have you heard?
So, have you heard?
Have you heard that she got a promotion?
It's kind of, you're not really asking, right?
Although it is a question, have you heard?
But you're not really expecting an answer.
This means I'm going to tell you some gossip.
Have you heard?
Because maybe I did, maybe I didn't, but I'm still going to say it.
I'm still going to say it anyway.
So usually you can say, what?
Or in this case, Eric goes, no, go on, tell me.
So obviously he knows it's going to be gossip.
And so the next thing Pam says is, well, you didn't hear this from me.
This is a way of saying, okay, don't tell anyone that I told you.
So you can tell people, but just don't tell them that I said that this happened because
Pam doesn't want to get in trouble.
She doesn't want anyone to know that she was giving out rumors.
So that's why she's starting out with, well, you didn't hear this from me, but the rumor
is, okay.
So you can, so this is a way of saying, all right, don't tell anyone that I told you.
You didn't hear this from me.
And also you can go, you can say, but the rumor is, or you can say, but rumor has it.
Oh, rumor has it that Paula is getting a promotion.
So you can go both ways.
And now he exclaimed something that's very strange.
If you just look at it from these two words, no way.
What is no way?
Well, in this context, no way means really?
I'm surprised.
So it's a way to express surprise.
But be careful because there's another meaning to this phrase.
For example, Marco, could you help me out and get the groceries from the car?
Huh?
That means no.
But also if you say it like, no way, you're saying, wow, that's so interesting.
So it can be an expression of surprise or it can be a way of saying no, very firmly,
no way.
So three great phrases there.
Very interesting dialogue about gossip, very common in the office environment.
So why don't we listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back in a little bit.
Hey guys.
What are you two whispering about?
You're the best.
So office gossip is generally, well, it's common.
It happens in every office, but I think that it's good to avoid too much gossip because
sometimes people's feelings can get hurt.
It's actually very interesting because usually the bigger the company is, I think more gossip
starts to spread because there are departments.
So you got the marketing department, the finance department.
So you're like, oh, Kathy from finance, she slept with Tom from marketing and stuff like
Then you have the gossip about the bosses.
Did you see?
He totally left for the weekend, but his wife was at home.
And also one of the situations where a lot of rumors and office gossip starts to come
up is office parties or the office Christmas parties where people maybe are drinking or
something happens and a lot of rumors start to spread.
And they're more relaxed than usual.
They do things they wouldn't normally do.
So maybe we could open this up to you.
Is there a common rumor or office gossip that you hear in your office?
Or is there that one secretary or guy that's always spreading rumors and gossiping?
And don't use any real names.
You can just tell us general stories.
But that's about it for us here today at EnglishPod.
Hope you've enjoyed this.
Check out our website EnglishPod.com.
Let us know if you have any questions or concerns.
gasp
My name is Catherine and today we've got a very nerve-wracking situation for you.
We are going to meet the in-laws.
Meeting the in-laws.
So who are in-laws?
These are the parents of your husband or wife.
So in this case, you have the mother-in-law and your father-in-law.
We're meeting these people for the very first time.
You can imagine how nervous the man is who's meeting his future wife's parents.
Let's learn all about what they talk about in today's dialogue.
Mother, father, I'd like to introduce you to my fiancé, Bob.
Hello, Bob.
Welcome.
Thanks for having me.
Nice to meet the both of you.
I've heard so much.
So Cindy told you about bringing home her last boyfriend then.
That idiot.
Shhh, Thurston.
You're going to scare the poor boy.
Come in and have a drink.
Dinner will be on in just a bit.
What will you be having?
Whiskey, bourbon?
Pick your poison.
If you have a lemonade, that'd be great.
Lemonade?
Why, sure.
There's some in the fridge.
Mother makes her own lemonade from scratch.
It's the best.
So what are your hobbies, son?
If you want, we can do some hunting tomorrow.
I've just picked up a new rifle I've been meaning to try out.
It should be a real hoot.
Um, I'm not really, uh, I don't really hunt.
You don't hunt?
Well, I'll beat damn.
Bob is an animal rights activist.
He doesn't believe in harming animals.
Let's go out to the patio where the pig is roasting.
Roast pig?
I'm a vegetarian.
So a very awkward situation.
I think they might have a little bit of a problems in the future.
Yeah, there's there are a lot of cultural differences between the characters, the son-in-law
and the new parents, the father.
So it's really interesting.
Why don't we start off by looking at a couple of different words on language takeaway.
So first of all, we have the two characters, Cindy and Bob, who are getting married.
So we call them, we call Bob, Cindy's fiance.
So my fiance.
And it's, uh, it comes from French and it means to the person that you're going to get
married to.
The person you've decided to get married to.
So we say fiance.
We can say the same word for a man or a woman.
So he is my fiance.
She is my fiance.
My fiance.
So Cindy introduces her fiance, Bob, to her parents and they start talking a little bit
and her dad, Thurston, invites him to go do some hunting tomorrow.
So hunting is a sport in America and lots of places in the world where you shoot animals.
So you go in the woods, you wear brown and green colors and you shoot animals to take
them home and skin them and eat them or to keep them as trophies.
So you go hunting and well, the way that you shoot these animals is you need to have a
rifle.
A rifle.
So you could also call it a hunting rifle in this case.
A rifle is a gun, but it's a very long gun.
So it's not a little gun that you just hold in your hand.
It's very long.
It'll be maybe like half a meter, a meter long.
And so oftentimes people, when they're hunting, they lie on the ground and they wait for the
animals to pass and they hide themselves and then they shoot from a long distance.
So he's talking about hunting.
He's got a new rifle and he says, yeah, we should definitely go.
Should be a real hoot.
This is a very fun spoken English phrase.
It's said more by older people than by younger people.
So this is why the father says it in the dialogue.
A hoot should be a real good time, real fun.
So how can you can use this like, oh, the party last night was a real hoot.
You can say that.
You can say or she's a real hoot.
She's really funny.
But it's really enjoyable.
This is a little bit more like spoken and for used by maybe older people.
My mother would say that I wouldn't say this.
So, oh my goodness, it was a real hoot.
So he's talking about hunting, how much fun they would have.
And unfortunately, Bob is an animal rights activist.
So an animal rights activist is someone who is very concerned with protecting the rights
of animals.
So for example, if I'm an animal rights activist, maybe I will protest people who wear fur or
perhaps I will also try and secure land for a natural wildlife preserve so that animals
can live in the wild.
There's not houses or cars.
So animal rights activists are people who try to make sure that animals are protected
from human beings.
And this is what Bob is.
So obviously Bob is not really into hunting, right?
I'm guessing no.
These are two opposites.
You have people who like to kill animals and people who want to protect the lives of animals.
Well, and to finish off our language takeaway, dinner is ready.
So let's go out to the patio.
A patio is a space outside the house, usually in the back that's paved.
So there's like cement or bricks or some kind of tile.
And that's where you have a table and chairs or some place to sit and rest.
This is where you have a grill.
So it's an outdoor area, but it's not grass.
So it's not your backyard.
Oh, it could be in your backyard.
The patio could be in the backyard.
But the ground in the patio is not grass.
It's some kind of material like cement or brick or wood.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back in a bit with Fluency Builder.
So we have three great phrases here on Fluency Builder.
Why don't we start off with the first one?
So the first one, we have to go back to the very beginning of this dialogue and think
about these people who are introducing each other for the very first time.
Cindy says, I want to introduce you to my fiance, Bob.
Bob says to Cindy's parents, I've heard so much.
So this phrase, you can usually use it when you meet somebody for the first time.
I've heard so much about you.
So the longer version is I've heard so much about you.
Basically you're saying, listen, Cindy talks about you a lot.
I've heard really nice things.
Sometimes people like to joke.
You say, I've heard so much about you.
They say, I hope only good things.
Yeah, I hope not too much.
I hope not too much.
So this is a very polite way to respond when someone introduces themselves.
It's a pleasure to finally meet you.
So they started talking and actually Thurston offers him a drink.
He says, well, what do you want?
This is one of my very favorite phrases in English.
The father-in-law wants to give the new son-in-law a drink.
And there are many different options.
So pick your poison means pick your drink.
You might hear this at a bar.
What do you want to drink?
You could have whiskey, rum.
So usually we're just talking about alcoholic drinks.
So you wouldn't really use this for juices or water or something like that?
This is for alcohol.
So if you say pick your poison, that's for alcohol, right?
Or maybe you can ask somebody what they're drinking.
You would say, what's your poison?
What's your poison?
So poison in this case is a slang term for alcohol.
And finally, when Cindy was talking about lemonade that her mother made, she said she
makes it from scratch, to make something from scratch.
You could say, my mother makes chocolate chip cookies from scratch.
This means not to buy something in the store, but to make it all yourself from nothing.
So making lemonade from scratch means taking lemons, cutting them, taking the juice, adding
some sugar.
So you're making it from nothing.
You're not using some kind of kit or some kind of canned drink from the store.
So for example, maybe some Italians in Italy make their spaghetti from scratch with flour
and they knead it and they make everything from scratch.
So you don't buy a box of spaghetti, but you actually have to cut the spaghetti and
pull it.
Very, very hard work.
So to make something from scratch.
And usually you can add the something goes in between, right?
To make lemonade from scratch, make bread from scratch.
Make ice cream from scratch.
So those are our three phrases for today.
Let's listen to the dialogue for one last time and we'll be back to talk about this
very, very interesting topic.
Mother, father, I'd like to introduce you to my fiance, Bob.
Uh, nice to meet the both of you.
Shhh.
Thurston, you're going to scare the poor boy.
Whiskey, bourbon, pick your poison.
Why sure, there's some in the fridge.
So, what are your hobbies, son?
Well, I'll be damned.
This is a very scary topic for a lot of people.
I think they get very nervous introducing themselves because in this case, Bob is going
to be marrying Cindy.
So these are going to be his in-laws forever.
Yeah, and it seems interesting, the differences, as you mentioned before, between the father-in-law
who's very much into hunting and drinks and likes roast pig, whereas this guy is more
of an animal rights activist, doesn't drink.
He's a vegetarian.
And a vegetarian.
He doesn't eat meat.
So, I think it would be very complicated.
And I think this happens a lot also with people from different cultures, right?
Maybe you're Asian and you're marrying an American or something like this.
I think it can be very, very difficult.
I recently went to a wedding between a Chinese girl and an American guy, and it was amazing
to see all these people getting together because the families were so different.
But they all got along really well.
It was really fun.
They were all very supportive.
They were just excited for their kids.
Yeah, but I think it can be a little bit difficult, right?
I mean, being in a family where the culture is so different or the traditions and the
customs are strange to you.
But it's exciting because then as a family, the young people who are getting married,
they can pick the traditions they want and make new traditions.
So this is a very interesting topic.
We want to know, maybe if you are married, how did it go when you met your in-laws?
Are you very different?
Or did you get along very well?
Or how is it in your country?
Yeah, please do let us know.
It looks like we've just gotta do our job.
Katrina And I'm Katrina and today we have a fun game
focused lesson for you.
Today we have an elementary lesson and it's all about playing board games.
Katrina Okay and the game in today's lesson is a
famous one.
It's called Monopoly.
Marco Monopoly.
Katrina I don't know if you have this in your countries.
It's a game in which you try to earn money and sell property and buy property.
That means hotels, houses, things like that.
And it's very famous.
We're going to learn more about this game today.
So let's take a listen to our dialogue for the first time.
Hey, why did you take that money?
You are such a cheater.
I should send you to jail.
I am not cheating.
When you pass go, you collect $200.
Everyone knows that.
Well, you can't just take the money.
You have to ask the bank for money.
And I'm the banker.
Banker?
Can I have my $200, please?
$200.
Please come again.
Now it's my turn to roll the dice.
So we saw some very interesting words there.
The dialogue is two people playing.
So why don't we take a look at some of those words used in language takeaway.
This first word we can hear when we play games.
It's not a good thing to be, but it's very common.
The word is cheater.
A cheater.
Alright, and that's a noun.
A person that is a cheater.
If somebody says, you are a cheater, what does that mean?
This means the person is not honest at games.
For example, Marco, you and I are playing a card game.
And you go to the bathroom.
And then I take the cards I want.
I hide the cards I don't want.
That's called cheating.
Okay, the verb, to cheat.
But here, a person who cheats is a cheater.
You're a cheater.
He's a cheater.
Alright, and remember that you say cheater, right?
Because sometimes many people that are learning English would say, you are a cheat.
A cheater here is the noun.
That means it's the name of the person who does this.
He is a cheater.
They are cheaters.
And well, moving on, sometimes cheaters and people that steal things are sent to jail.
So, if you go to a casino and you cheat, you use a cell phone or you use some kind of a
computer device to win money.
This is called cheating.
And the casino will send you to jail.
Alright, so jail is the place where people go.
What's the difference between prison and jail?
Basically, they're the same thing.
Two words for the same thing.
People who break the law, people who do bad things, go to jail.
Not just cheaters.
So, now you have another word.
Maybe you've seen that show Prison Break.
And so, jail is pretty much the same thing.
So, the show could have been called Jail Break.
But yeah.
So, moving on, our third word is the person who's handling money says, well, you know
what?
I'm the banker.
A banker.
Cheater, banker.
So, you know already, banker is probably a person.
This is a job.
So, a banker is a person who works at a bank.
So, but what about the person that helps you when you go to the bank, like that gives you
the money and the bank teller.
It's not the same as a banker, right?
Generally speaking, a person who gives you money and collects your money, this is a teller.
A bank teller.
A banker is someone who works in the bank to make big decisions, to invest money, to
give loans.
So, usually, maybe managers or executives are bankers.
And moving on to our last word here, we have a verb and that is to collect.
So, in the conversation between these two people, Karen, the woman, says, when you pass
a go, you collect $200.
So, to collect means to get.
To get or to take.
So, at the end of every month, my landlord comes to my house to collect rent.
That means to take money from me for the house or the apartment.
So, now you have another way to say to get or to acquire.
So, very interesting.
Why don't we go back?
We'll go back to the dialogue again and we'll take a look at all of these words that we
just saw and when we return, we'll take a look at some phrases.
You have to ask the bank for money and I'm the banker.
Now, it's my turn to roll the dice.
So, now let's take a look at three key phrases on Fluency Builder.
Marco, you're such a cheater.
Such a cheater.
I'm not a cheater but what do you mean when you say you are such a cheater?
So we know cheater, right?
You could say this for many different things.
You're such a liar.
You are such a...
Such a terrible person.
You're such a bad person.
Normally, we say this when we want to criticize someone, when we want to say something mean
or negative.
You're such a means you're really a bad person.
You're really a cheater.
So obviously because we are using a noun, we can't really use an adverb, right?
If you're saying an adjective like I am very happy.
You can't say you are very cheater.
You wouldn't say that.
You have to use a different sentence structure to give emphasis.
So in this case, you could say cheater.
Okay, but that's not as strong, is it?
As such a cheater.
That means, gosh, you're a really big cheater.
So this is the way that you would use that structure such a and then a noun that is describing
this person, right?
You could also use it for positive statements like you're such a good friend.
So then you are using the adjective.
You are such a good friend.
You're such a nice person.
So moving on, we saw another interesting phrase when he said, well, you know what?
You can't just take the money.
So what does he mean when he says can't just?
Okay, we could say you can't take the money.
This is basically a rule.
You can't take the money.
But you can't just take the money means there are other things you have to do before you
take the money.
You have to, in this case, ask the banker for the money.
Or for example, if I want to drive a car, I can't just go buy a car.
I need to first get a driver's license.
I need to learn how to drive.
I need to register.
So you can't just, just here means there's some things we need to do before this happens.
You can't just means you can't do these things that easily.
You have to do other things before it, as you said.
We will try to use that one in a sentence.
But moving on to our last phrase, when the person said, you know what?
All right, you want your $200?
So sometimes people think that this phrase means you are here.
Which it could in some cases.
Oh, yeah, that's right.
So basically, you're saying, I found you.
I found you.
But in this case, this doesn't make sense.
We're talking about a game.
So if you think about this, here you are, you can imagine someone is giving someone
else a thing.
So in the case of the bank teller, remember we're talking about getting money at a bank.
A bank teller might say, here you are, sir.
Here's your money and then give you some money.
So this is something we say in English when we give something to someone else.
Because otherwise, I guess it's strange if you just, you know, give something to someone
and you don't say anything.
You need to say something.
And if you say, here, that's very rude.
So this is a polite way to say, please take this.
This is for you.
You might hear this at a restaurant.
Here's your food.
It's a very useful phrase.
And so I think it's time for us to listen to this dialogue again.
Then we'll be back to talk a little bit more.
Hey why did you take that money?
Can I have my $200 please?
A lot of interesting phrases.
They're really interesting and very useful.
So remember to try and use such a, you can't just, or here you are, when you're giving
something to someone.
These are really great.
And I recommend also playing some games.
Games are a great way to improve your language skills.
Monopoly, the game that they're playing in this dialogue, is a really fun one for numbers.
Because the whole point of the game, the whole purpose of the game is to make the most money
of anyone playing.
And this is a really fun one because you get to buy houses and hotels.
There's simple street names and place names.
Like Park Avenue or the Boardwalk.
So you'll learn a lot of really great things about American culture and English.
It's a really good game, very popular.
I'm sure they have it in your language, but if you could get it in English, that would
be really great.
And also another really good game to play with your friends to practice your vocab is
Scrabble.
Scrabble, that's hard.
Scrabble is a game about words.
And so basically you have to make words out of letters.
And whoever has the most interesting words, unique words, that person wins.
So obviously it's a great game to improve your vocab because you also learn some words
that maybe you didn't know before and your friends knew.
So it's really fun to play.
Obviously don't play with any native English speakers because they might win.
But it's a really cool game to play if you have any friends who are also learning English.
You can get together, play Scrabble, and it's a fun way to improve your vocab and to also
fight a little bit because all the time some people are trying to make up new words that
don't really exist.
We call them cheaters.
Cheaters.
So yeah, let us know about your game experiences.
Do you like to play games?
Do you have a favorite game?
Practice some of these and let us know how they go.
My name is Katherine and today we have a very serious dialogue for you.
We are going to talk about a will and testament, the last will and testament of someone.
Alright, so what is a will and testament?
Well basically this is a document that someone writes, usually with a lawyer, that explains
what to do with the person's body and their possessions, their things, after they die.
So many people write these and the family will then use it to discover who gets to receive
certain objects and what to do with this person's body.
So that is a last will and testament.
We are going to take a look at an example of one so you would see more or less in English
how one is written.
Now obviously they can be very long and very complex.
So we've taken one that has some interesting words there that are a little bit more specific,
a lot of legal terms there.
So why don't we listen to this dialogue for the first time and we'll be back shortly.
Last will and testament of Luke Thompson.
I Luke Thompson residing in California, being of sound mind, do hereby declare this instrument
to be my last will and testament.
I hereby revoke all previous wills and codicils.
I direct that the disposition of my remains be as follows.
I'm to be cremated and taken to the summit of Mount Everest where my ashes will forever
remain at the ceiling of the earth.
I give all the rest and residue of my estate to my spouse, Betty Thompson, should she survive
me for 60 days.
If my spouse, Betty Thompson, does not survive me, I give all the rest and residue of my
estate to English Pod.
If neither Betty Thompson nor English Pod survives me, I give all the rest and residue
of my estate to my heirs as determined by the laws of the state of California relating
to descent and distribution.
I appoint Robert Porter to act as the executor of this will, to serve without bond.
Should Robert Porter be unable or unwilling to serve, then I appoint Jason Smalls to act
as the executor of this will.
I herewith affix my signature to this will on this the 23rd of May, 2010 in the presence
of the following witnesses who witnessed and subscribed this will at my request and in
my presence.
So now we're going to take a look at five key words on Language Takeaway.
Okay, the first word here in Language Takeaway comes from the very beginning of this monologue.
We're reading the last will in Testament aloud.
I Luke Thompson residing in California being of sound mind.
Sound as an adjective.
That's very interesting.
So he says, I am in sound mind and sound is an adjective to describe I am in a good state
of mind.
So he's not having any problems or logical or unaffected.
Basically I'm not crazy.
I'm not crazy.
I don't have any problems.
We can say this about other things too.
We can say he's of sound body.
That means that he is healthy.
He has no problems with his body.
Or I could say, Marco, that's a really good decision.
It's a sound decision.
So again, that's also a way of saying good or it will work.
It will work.
It's a good decision.
So you can use this adjective with sound body, sound mind or a sound decision.
Or sometimes some people even say, I think in Ireland, they say, oh, he's a really sound
Oh, so he's a good guy.
He's a good guy.
So sound body, sound mind, sound guy.
Moving on, he was talking about the will and he says, I hereby revoke all previous wills
and codicils.
The verb here is to revoke.
To revoke.
This is something that a lot of people hear in America when they drive their car too fast.
The police catch them and the police revoke their driver's license.
And that basically means to take away.
Or to take, right?
To take away from.
So this man here, Luke Thompson, what he's saying is, I revoke all previous wills.
That means any other will that I wrote before, it's not good anymore.
I'm throwing it away.
This is the only one that will exist.
So you can use this word revoke with many aspects.
For example, sometimes employees will get their benefits revoked by the company because
maybe they don't have enough money anymore.
Or maybe they're bad employees.
Or maybe they were bad employees.
So to revoke.
Now, moving on, he was talking about his estate.
So this is very interesting because he says, I give all the rest and residue of my estate
to my spouse.
Okay, estate, it sounds like a very fancy word.
It is a fancy word.
Sometimes we use this word to mean someone's property, their house.
But in a will, this means everything the person owns.
House, car, things, pets, stocks, investments.
The estate is essentially everything the person owns as a kind of one unit.
So anything that is yours or you may have bought.
Let's consider the estate is a big bag, right?
That's your estate.
And inside this bag is everything that you own.
You might see advertisements in fact in America or in England for estate sales.
This means that when someone passes away, when they die, their family will sell their
things and this is an estate sale.
You can find beautiful, interesting things in estate sales.
So that is a person's estate.
Now remember this is in the legal terms because you also have other things like real estate.
And as you mentioned, which would be a house, right?
Okay, now apart from his estate, he was telling everyone as to how they should take care of
his body or what they should do with it.
And he said, well, I am to be cremated.
Okay, this is important.
When a person dies, there are generally two options.
Their body can be buried in a casket in the ground.
That means they're put in the earth.
But a lot of people choose to be cremated.
Okay, that means that their body will be burned and their ashes, that means the things that
are left after they are burned, they will be taken somewhere else.
Like in a bowl or a pot.
And in this case, that's what the person wants.
He wants to be cremated.
So that would be the verb to cremate and the noun would be a cremation.
And what is going to happen to all this stuff?
Basically it's going to be given away to his wife, to English Pod, and to his heirs.
This is our next word.
What is an heir?
Now, if you notice, the H is silent there.
So his heirs.
And those are basically his children.
His daughters or his sons.
Right, my heirs are the people who are related to me, who in this case will receive some
of my things.
Now, is it only the children or also it could be maybe any other relative?
It could be any other relative.
You could say, I'm his heir, he's my great uncle.
It means we're related but we're not necessarily father and daughter or grandfather and granddaughter.
An heir is someone who is related to the family.
It doesn't have to be a certain relationship.
And now it's interesting because from this word we can get inheritance.
Now we didn't find it in the dialogue.
So it's very interesting because they're very similar in spelling, right?
Inheritance and heir.
Right, good to remember.
Yeah, good to remember.
You switch the E and the I's, right?
So inheritance is a thing.
You can receive this.
So I received an inheritance from my great grandmother.
That means I received some money or some things.
That means you were that person's heir.
Or in his inheritance, he received a large house.
He was the heir to a great fortune.
So again, inheritance wasn't in the dialogue but I think it's worth mentioning.
And I think now we can move on to four very interesting items that we have for you on
Okay, these first two are words that we normally read or hear in legal documents.
And I want to place emphasis on the fact that we don't really say them in spoken English.
So remember that these are more formal terms.
The first one is hereby.
I hereby declare.
That means now.
With this word, with this spoken sentence, this will happen.
I think we've seen it like in movies sometimes.
I hereby declare this country in the name of England.
I hereby declare you man and wife.
That means in this moment, this happens.
And a very similar word that we also saw in the dialogue is herewith.
So in the Will and Testament, we hear Luke Thompson who says, I herewith affix my signature.
That means with the action of signing my name, signing my signature, this will be completed.
So I herewith, you have to have an action, not just a word.
So I herewith.
I herewith attach my seal.
A seal is like a stamp.
Very common in the old days when you had real letters.
But I herewith attach my seal and give my approval to this document.
So it has to be something physical.
So if maybe you're writing like this very classic letter and you say, I herewith include
a lock of my hair.
Oh, how romantic.
That's kind of creepy.
But you're including or attaching physically, right?
I guess the modern version of herewith would be attach.
Herewith, hereby.
We've got another phrase here that you might hear more commonly.
The beginning of the Will and Testament, there's a phrase as follows.
So with my body do as follows.
So basically this is a very common way of putting this in a sentence to indicate that
you're going to start to list items.
Or give instructions.
Give instructions.
So for example, to make a loaf of bread, do as follows.
Number one, get some flour.
Number two, add some water.
So this is a way for us to say, listen, I'm going to give you instructions or a list.
Pay attention.
So please do as follows.
Please act as follows.
And our last word that we have here, going back to herewith, he said, I herewith affix
my signature.
What does it mean when you affix?
Affix is a word we have a number of other words for these days, so you rarely hear it.
It means to attach or to include.
So I herewith affix my signature would be attach my signature.
I herewith provide my signature or I herewith affix my address or I herewith affix something.
Really interesting stuff.
You'll obviously see this very commonly with legal documents such as these, even though
it is like older English, it's still very commonly used.
I guess because the law is so old.
And I think that it's worth listening to today's monologue one more time.
Think about some of the words that we've just discussed and we'll be back in a moment.
I Luke Thompson residing in California, being of sound mind do hereby declare this instrument
Now I wonder, within the will or within the estate, do you also acquire a person's debts?
Ah, that's a good question.
Because I know in some countries you do, in some countries you don't.
I know in like some cases, some heirs have found themselves in some legal problems because
all of a sudden they inherited that person's debts and stuff like that.
I think that does happen, especially for people whose properties are mortgaged.
For example, if your uncle has a house and he didn't pay for it with cash, he has a mortgage
and he dies and you inherit this house, you also inherit the mortgage.
So sometimes inheritances are not always a good thing.
I think this happened more in the past.
There are more protections and safeguards for people today.
But definitely, I mean, what is it like in Ecuador?
Do people inherit debt?
Yeah, I think most, well, obviously most banks when they give out loans or a mortgage, they
have somebody that will kind of co-sign on these things.
And I imagine, I'm not really very sure, but I know that if you inherit an estate that
has a mortgage, you are forced to pay it.
And if you can't, then they will make that other person who co-signed it responsible
if he still exists.
In these legal systems, it's sometimes very strange because it seems like there would
be a lot of gaps.
And everyone wants to protect themselves.
So we've got the bank that wants to protect itself.
It gives a loan, it wants the money back.
And a person who wants to protect himself from maybe a relative who dies and has debt.
So I'm curious to know what our users have to say.
What is the situation in your country?
Do most people have a will and testament?
What happens with debt?
Or what happens if somebody dies and they don't have a will and testament?
That's a good question too.
I don't have an answer for that one.
Alright, so let us know and we'll give you guys some information on that as well.
My name is Katrin and today we have a sad lesson for you.
This is an intermediate level lesson about what happens when a friend or family member
dies.
So, we have a lot of words that are related to all the preparations for when somebody
dies and also some phrases that you can say to someone that maybe had a family member
who recently passed away.
So before we get into all of this, we have a key word that we want to take a look at
now in Vocabulary Preview.
Alright, so in Vocabulary Preview, you have that one word and it's the title of our lesson
also, funeral.
Funeral.
So, funeral is an event.
It's something that we have.
So basically, a funeral is the time when we mourn someone who has died.
It's a celebration of their life.
So it's kind of like a ceremony where you respect that person that passed away, right?
Some people will talk about the person that passed away or maybe, you know, it's time
to maybe honor that person, to as you say, mourn and remember that person.
So it's very common for people in different religions to have different traditions.
In some religions, like I think in Christianity, you have a priest who will say some things
that are very traditional and then say some things about the person who died.
Other religions have different ceremonies.
So today we're going to take a look at what happens in preparing a funeral.
Hi, Daniel.
How are you holding up?
I'm greatly sorry for your loss.
I'm much better.
I've begun organizing everything for the funeral.
How's that going?
It's a lot harder than I imagined.
There are many things that you have to arrange.
I booked a time and date with the funeral home, but I still have a lot of things to
Have you brought a burial plot and a casket?
Wendy is being cremated.
She always talked about how she didn't want to be buried.
I already chose a cremation urn and we plan to spread the ashes in the ocean.
That sounds like something she would have really liked.
I'm sure the memorial service will be tasteful.
You're doing a great job.
It hasn't been easy, but luckily we have life insurance and Wendy left behind a detailed
will that will sort out any other legal matters.
So a pretty interesting dialogue and I'm sure you have a lot of questions regarding some
of those words and phrases that you heard.
So why don't we take a look at five key words on Language Takeaway.
So basically we have two friends in this dialogue who are discussing arrangements for a funeral
and one friend is asking the other about his preparations and asks if he's bought a burial
plot.
Okay, burial plot.
Now what is a burial plot and why would you buy one?
Well, a plot, P-L-O-T, plot is a piece of land.
So you can think about this logically, a burial plot, burial to bury is a place, a space
in the ground where we bury a person.
Usually you buy one of these at a cemetery, right?
So cemeteries have some, usually a lot of land and you can pay for a piece of land.
A small portion.
A small portion, yeah.
And that's a burial plot.
And well, our next word is related to what you put into this burial plot, right?
Somebody dies and what goes into this piece of land is a casket.
And I don't know if any of you are fans of the TV show Six Feet Under, but you'll know
from this TV show that there are many different kinds of caskets.
So a casket is a box.
You can have fancy caskets or you can have wooden caskets that are very simple, like
pine.
And basically this is the box that the person's body will go into when they're buried.
So that is called a casket.
Well moving on, a new trend I would say in many countries and many people around the
world don't want to be buried.
You get cremated.
Cremated.
So this is the option for people who are not buried.
In some countries, China for example, I don't think you can be buried.
You have to be cremated because there's an issue of space.
And this is an option for most people where basically your friend or your loved one, their
body is burned and you can collect the remains afterwards.
They're very small.
They're ashes.
So it's like a burning process.
So the word is to be cremated, to get cremated.
Yeah, his body was cremated.
And well as you said, you take the ashes and you can put them in a cremation urn or just
an urn.
Okay, urn.
This might sound like a strange word to you.
But an urn is a special kind of pot, okay, or a vessel to hold things in.
So for example, in this case we have a cremation urn that is a special pot, usually very beautiful.
Sometimes there's a name on it with the deceased person's ashes, his or her remains.
So as you said, it's kind of like a vase or a pot, something very nice and small where
you have the person's ashes.
All right, so now we know what happened during the funeral.
We know what happens, how you maybe cremate the person or you put them in a casket.
And well, what happens afterwards?
Well, afterwards you have a memorial service.
Okay, so many people want to know what's the difference between a funeral and a memorial
service.
In my mind, a funeral is very quiet and sad and you have some respectful words and you
usually put the casket into the ground or have some kind of ceremony.
But a memorial service is an opportunity to talk to friends and family, to eat some food,
to have some drinks, to talk about the person who died.
It's almost like the party, if that makes sense.
It's a get together of people who obviously are trying to give support to their friends
or their family members who lost that person, but also to talk about that person in a good
way and all the great memories they had.
I guess that's why it's called a memorial service because you remember and you give
out your memories about that person.
So a lot of interesting words there, very specific to this topic, but obviously really
important.
So why don't we go back and listen to the dialogue again.
Hi Daniel, how are you holding up?
I'm doing much better.
No, Wendy is being cremated.
So we have a couple of phrases, four to be exact, that we want to take a look at now
Okay, this first phrase is a very useful one if you're trying to ask someone about maybe
how they're feeling or someone who's had some problems recently.
You can ask them how things are going.
One person says to the other, hi Daniel, how are you holding up?
Now you know that to hold up something means to have it in your hands, but in this case
you're talking about how are things going?
Right, but I wouldn't say, hey, how are you holding up?
You wouldn't say that to somebody, right?
If normal circumstances.
If Marco looks really happy, I won't ask him.
But if someone has passed through a very difficult period, for example, if someone dies in their
family or perhaps if they've been very sick or there's some negative or difficult things
that happened, you can say, how are you holding up?
So basically means how are you dealing with this difficult situation or how are you dealing
with your illness?
Or how are you holding up with your in-laws?
How are you dealing with that difficult situation?
And then the person complimented this by saying, and this is a very good phrase, this whole
sentence is very useful if you want to say something nice to a person that has recently
lost someone.
You say, I am greatly sorry for your loss.
Okay, so you might have heard the word loss before, lose, loss.
Loss is a noun, it's a thing.
We normally say this about people who have died because you don't want to say, I'm really
sorry for your dead brother.
It's sad, it's very rude, too direct.
So in English we say, I'm greatly sorry for your loss, for this part of your life that
has gone away.
You can also say, I'm very sorry for your loss.
This is a standard phrase for funerals and memorial services.
So if somebody's brother died, you go up to that person and you can say, I am greatly
sorry for your loss.
I am very sorry for your loss.
That's what you say.
And it's very respectful and it's very nice to say.
Yes, it's very nice.
All right, so now moving on, we've said that the person is sorry and everything, but then
they were talking about the girl Wendy and that she had life insurance and that she also
left behind a detailed will.
Does that mean she forgot it?
She forgot it, but that can mean that, right?
This is a phrase that has a couple different meanings.
And so it's important to look at this one when we're talking about someone who has died,
who left behind something.
It means that they have completed it in this case or it survives them.
So they left that for you.
Because as you said, it has a couple of different meanings like to leave behind can be to lose
or to forget.
But in this case, specifically, it's to leave for you.
For example, you could say he died and he left behind three children.
That means that he had three children when he died and they're still alive.
Very interesting phrase, to leave something behind.
And so she left behind a detailed will and that's going to sort out any other legal matters.
To sort out.
This is a great verb.
This is a verbal phrase that we hear a lot with documents and wills and things like this.
Basically, to sort out means to solve problems or to fix or to amend.
For example, have you sorted out that problem you had with your plane tickets?
So have you fixed those problems or have you solved those problems that you had with your
plane tickets?
To sort out, to fix, to make arrangements for.
Very, very useful phrase.
Very useful phrase.
So four key phrases there, really good ones.
Why don't we go back, listen to the dialogue and we'll be back to talk a little bit more.
Hi Daniel.
So now, talking about funerals, there's an interesting word.
What is it called when a person speaks at a funeral?
Well, normally at a funeral, a loved one or friend will give a eulogy.
Eulogy.
Okay, that's E-U, right?
E-U.
It looks like a funny word, but it's very important and it's something that you hear
a lot.
Who will give the eulogy?
Or his son will give the eulogy.
So this is maybe the keynote address in a funeral.
This is the important speech where someone will discuss the person who has died and his
or her contributions and life.
Okay, so that's called a eulogy.
It's really interesting because it's kind of a word that you don't really use much and
you wouldn't really know it.
For example, I didn't really know about it until I saw it in a movie when he made a mistake.
He said googology or something like that.
Yeah, it was in a comedy.
But very interesting words.
It's a sad topic, but it happens sometimes.
You have to deal with these things and so if you have to do it in English, well, what
better way than to learn all of these things which could come in handy sometimes.
And you never know, you're watching a movie or something and this comes up.
There are a lot of comedies, like you said, we call them black comedies.
It means they're very dark and strange.
And they, like Four Weddings and a Funeral is a very famous English movie about this
kind of thing.
And so this is useful vocabulary and some useful phrases for those situations as well.
And I remember I met somebody who, I remember I knew somebody who met a casket salesman.
Sold caskets.
That's an interesting job.
Yeah, so you never know.
You never know.
Well, I hope you've enjoyed this lesson.
Not too dark for you, but please do remember to ask us any questions or practice some of
your new words and phrases on our website, EnglishPod.com.
Have a good week.
And today we've got a very interesting lesson for you all about building your vocabulary.
So we're trying to describe personalities.
You're going to learn tons of new words.
And as you said, we're going to describe people's personalities.
So not their physical attributes.
We're going to concentrate on how they are personality wise and stuff like that.
Their character.
So let's take a listen to today's dialogue for the first time and we'll be back in a
moment to talk about some of these great words.
Okay, class, settle down.
I have the results of your individual personality tests.
I'm going to hand them out and if you'd like, you can read them out loud to the rest of
the class.
I'll read mine.
Okay, go ahead.
It says here that I am adventurous, outgoing and easygoing.
It says that I'm a little superstitious and occasionally naive.
Well, the test isn't 100% accurate.
Is that all it says?
It also says that I'm open minded with great ambition, but that I can also be reckless
and clumsy.
Anyone else want to read theirs?
I'll go.
It says that I'm an extroverted, well balanced person.
It says I am generous, outspoken and very diligent.
This is so true.
It also says that I am a magnanimous, eloquent and daring.
This is totally me.
These tests are baloney.
So we're going to divide this up into language takeaway parts one and two.
So let's start with five key words now on language takeaway.
The first adjective that came up was adventurous and outgoing.
Outgoing, that's a good one.
Outgoing is a great one.
So think of the word out.
That means moving out, going out.
Outgoing means someone is very comfortable talking to strangers or talking to people
that they don't know very well.
For example, my brother is very outgoing.
He loves meeting new people.
He loves starting conversations with strangers.
So the opposite would be shy.
That's the opposite.
Okay, so outgoing.
And then it also described this person as being a little superstitious.
Okay, superstitious is very interesting because it's hard to describe since everyone's superstitions
are different.
In many cultures, there are different superstitions.
So for example, in America, we say that walking under a ladder is bad luck.
Or opening an umbrella inside is bad luck.
So if you believe that your actions will bring you bad luck, you're probably superstitious.
So if you are superstitious, you believe in superstitions.
So Marco, are you superstitious?
Do you think that black cats bring bad luck?
And this is also an interesting word, a way to describe people who are very believing,
a person that is naive.
Okay, you said this already.
Naive means that someone generally believes most things that you tell them.
So if I told you, Marco, hey, did you know that it's supposed to rain frogs tomorrow?
Yeah, really.
If Marco believes me, he's naive.
That means that probably it's not going to rain frogs tomorrow, but he believes everything
I say.
So he's a little bit naive or inexperienced.
So naive is not really a bad way of describing a person, is it?
No, but it can be.
So you want to be careful.
Some people, if you say that they're being naive, it's offensive.
So you have to be careful when you say this.
Moving on, we also had an interesting adjective that described another person, and it was
to be reckless.
I can also be reckless.
Reckless.
So someone who is reckless often does things without thinking, sometimes things that are
dangerous.
For example, Marco, I think that driving a car without wearing your seatbelt is very
reckless.
That means that you're not thinking about safety.
So a person that is reckless is a kind of a synonym of being a little bit dangerous to
be around.
So someone who does things without thinking about their consequences, their results.
And also along with reckless, the test said that this person was clumsy.
Oh, I love this word.
There was a very famous commercial when I was growing up in America on the television.
It was all about young students at high school who are clumsy, and so they should buy this
special folder for their schoolwork to help them because they're so clumsy.
And they're dropping their papers and their books.
So someone who is clumsy often falls down or hits their head or trips or drops their
If I drop something on the floor and break it, my mother might say, you're so clumsy.
Clumsy fingers.
You should be more careful.
So clumsy, is this insulting if you say, oh, you're so clumsy?
No, it's not so bad.
There are worse things to say.
But if someone often drops things, you can call them clumsy.
Or you can also say, you're such a butterfingers.
Butterfingers.
That means that your fingers are like butter.
They're very slippery.
You drop everything.
So clumsy and reckless, they are negative adjectives, right?
They're saying that you do things wrong.
So it's not really a good thing to be reckless or clumsy.
No, it's not really a good thing.
These are not positive characteristics.
So we took a look at those five, which are very good about one of the people that took
the test.
Let's move on now to more language and more adjectives on Language Takeaway part two.
Alright, so in this part, we're going to take a look at positive attributes about a person,
They're all good things about someone.
And this first one is very good.
Extroverted, extroverted.
A person that's extroverted.
So a synonym of this word is outgoing.
Okay, so it's pretty much the same thing.
That's right, because extra means going out, out.
So in this case, someone who is extroverted often meets new people, goes out and does
social things, goes to the movies, goes out with friends, meets strangers, talks to strangers.
Again, it's like being outgoing.
Someone who's comfortable with new people.
So we said that shy is the opposite of outgoing.
What would be the opposite for extroverted?
Extroverted's opposite is introverted.
Intro means in, not out.
So that means someone who's very shy, who is uncomfortable with new people.
And well, apart from being extroverted, the test also said that this person is very diligent.
Ooh, diligent is a great word.
This is a word you want to hear from your teachers and your bosses.
Okay, if someone says, Marco, you're very diligent at work.
It means you're very careful.
You always do things very thoroughly.
And also quickly, right?
When you tell them to do something, they do it immediately.
So a diligent worker always does a good job and does it in a timely manner.
And moving on to our third adjective.
This one is kind of strange.
It kind of sounds like monogamy, but it's magnanimous.
Magnanimous.
We hear this a lot in the newspaper or on TV about usually famous people.
He did something very magnanimous or it was a magnanimous gesture.
This describes a person who does things for the benefit of other people.
Who is thinking about the well-being and the health and the lives of others.
So it would be a person that likes to share or a person that's not selfish.
So if you donate half of your salary this month to victims of an earthquake, I would
say, Marco, that's so magnanimous of you.
You're so magnanimous.
And apart from being magnanimous, if a person is eloquent, I guess that's also a positive
attribute.
This is another really good one.
Someone who is eloquent is a very good speaker.
This means that when they talk, they sound very, very good.
Someone who's eloquent uses big words, but is also very good at making other people listen.
So it's usually about speaking.
So you would say he's an eloquent speaker.
So someone who is eloquent is fun or good or interesting to listen to.
And our last description for personalities and the way people are is a person that's
daring.
Well, this can be a good thing or a bad thing.
It depends on who you're talking about.
Because sometimes daring people are also reckless and this can be dangerous.
But sometimes someone who is daring can be doing good things.
Like a daring business person might take risks that other people don't take.
So a person that's daring dares to take risks, right?
You are very daring.
You Marco are daring because recently you jumped out of an airplane.
You did some skydiving.
So that would be considered daring.
That's very daring.
I'm not daring like that because I would never jump out of an airplane.
So we took a look at basically 10 key words here.
A lot of adjectives, but they're a great way to describe yourself.
Maybe if you're at a job interview, sometimes a typical question is, how would you describe
yourself using three adjectives?
I'm extroverted, I'm diligent, and I'm open-minded.
You sound really professional when you say things like this.
Give me the job.
So and even if you took a look at some of the negative adjectives that we used, it's
also a typical job interview question is like, what are your biggest faults?
So you can say, well, maybe I am superstitious and naive.
You wouldn't want to say that in a job interview.
But I mean, I don't know, maybe.
Because you have to say something, right?
You do.
But I would say, sometimes I'm a bit too daring or sometimes I take things personally.
So we can talk about that another time.
But I think for now, it'd be good if we listened to today's dialogue one more time and really
got a good sense of how to use these words.
I am going to hand them out.
And if you'd like, you can read them out loud to the rest of the class.
It says here that I am adventurous, outgoing, and easygoing.
It also says that I'm open-minded with great ambition, but that I can also be reckless
Okay, anyone else want to read theirs?
It says that I'm an extroverted, well-balanced person.
It says I am generous, outspoken, and very diligent.
It also says that I am a magnanimous, eloquent, and daring.
So now going into descriptions.
What are three adjectives that you would use to describe someone that you hate the most?
So going back to describing people, how would you describe one of the main things that really
irritate you about someone?
Maybe if they are clumsy, it really bothers you that people are clumsy or reckless maybe.
I see what you're saying.
Well, I really like extroverted, hardworking people, but in English we have a word to describe
someone who is too extroverted, too hardworking.
We call this person a type A personality.
Type A. Type A.
The letter A. And this means someone who works very, very hard, who is very, very serious,
but who's always anxious, always needs to get things done.
And so these people can be very hard to work with because they're controlling and they're
never calm.
So they're not easygoing.
No, they're not easygoing.
They always want to do what they want to do.
They're usually not very good listeners.
And so this type A personality is something that I would say I'm not a big fan of at work
or even when we're going out because with friends, it's hard to be around someone who
always has to control you.
This is very interesting.
And I'm sure our listeners have a lot of different ways to describe things that irritate them,
maybe about people or maybe attributes that they really admire about someone.
And I want to give everybody a little bit of homework today.
Go home or if you're at home, look up a word in the dictionary that describes yourself.
An adjective to describe yourself.
I think this is a really good homework assignment because you'll be improving your vocabulary
and then put it on our website, EnglishPod.com.
Let us know more about you.
Copyright © 2020 The Ellen DeGeneres, No Parnish
My name is Katherine and today we're talking about one of our favorite topics here at EnglishPod
that would be food.
We love talking about food and this time we are going to pick up some food at the deli.
What's a deli?
A deli is a special store where a person can buy meat.
Meat and cheese and in this case we're talking about special meats.
It's not just like pork or beef which you could also buy at the butcher.
It is cured meats, cold meats.
So let's take a look at today's vocabulary preview to find out more about this special
kind of meat.
Alright so at the deli you usually pick up cold cuts.
Cold cuts.
So basically the way that I used to remember cold cuts as a child was that cold cuts are
what you put on a sandwich.
So sliced turkey, sliced chicken, ham, salami.
Okay like pepperoni would be a cold cut.
So cold cuts are meats that you serve cold normally.
They're usually cured.
They're not like raw pork or raw beef.
You put them on a sandwich.
So cured meats would be like that they're smoked.
They're not cooked.
No they're not cooked.
They're smoked or they're cured with a kind of chemical or brine.
That means that they're preserved.
They can last for a long time.
Alright very good.
So that's what we're getting at the deli.
Usually at the deli you can pick up meats, cheeses, and pickles and all that.
Alright so why don't we jump into our dialogue and listen to it for the first time.
Honey we're all out of wine and cheese.
Do you mind running to the deli and picking up a few things?
Can it wait?
I'm watching the game right now.
Your friends and family are coming over tonight and we still need to get a lot of things.
What do you need?
Okay pick up some cured meats to go with the wine.
Maybe a pound of Polish sausages, ham, liverwurst, salami, and any other cold cuts that are on
sale.
I think I saw a promotion for pastrami.
Also get some coleslaw and a jar of olives.
Whoa wait a minute.
Isn't that a bit too much?
I mean how much is all this going to cost?
Never mind that.
Get some dips as well.
Get a jar of spinach and blue cheese dips and also some tzatziki.
If they have bean dip, get that as well.
Last but not least, get some pickles.
Is that all your majesty?
Very funny.
Get a move on.
People will be here any minute.
So now we're going to go into language takeaway where we're going to take a look at six key
Alright so the first key word that we have, we actually talked about it already but just
to make sure that you got it.
Those are cured meats.
Cured meats.
Well, to cure something is to preserve it in this case.
So be careful because to cure has a couple of different meanings but when we're talking
about food, something that is cured is preserved.
For example, pickles are cured in salty water.
Brine.
Oh is that what it's called?
Brine?
Salty water.
I don't know what pickles are.
But pickles are like, if you don't put them in brine, they don't taste all soury and nasty.
No, that's because they're cucumbers.
So a cucumber becomes a pickle after it's been cured.
So we could talk about pork but when pork is cured, it becomes ham.
So cured meats are meats that have been preserved through some kind of process like using salt
or drying them.
So a cured meat, I think maybe is liverwurst.
Well, this is a German lesson now, not just an English lesson.
In English, we have a lot of words that come from German and one of these words is wurst.
And that means sausage, right?
Sausage.
So bratwurst, liverwurst.
And in this case, liverwurst, I'm sure you can guess what part of the pig that comes
from.
Liver.
Very good, Marco.
You get a star for the day.
Liverwurst is a kind of sausage that's made up of this part of the animal.
Actually, I've never, I don't know if I've had liverwurst.
What does it look like?
Is it white?
Is it red?
Is it dark?
I think it's like light, purplish, whitish.
I've had bloodwurst.
Blood sausage is delicious.
And well, apart from picking up meats and cheeses at the deli, you can also pick up
coleslaw.
Coleslaw is an American classic.
I'm sure you could get this other places as well, though.
It's basically a cold salad that's made up of cabbage and carrots and maybe onions.
But generally, the sauce is white.
It's like a mayonnaise and vinegar sauce.
So it's very stringy, lots of thin, long pieces and the sauce is white.
I think this is a very American thing.
I'm not really sure if I've seen coleslaw in many other places, but I personally don't
like it.
Again, because of the whole vinegar thing.
I'm not a big fan of the bitter stuff.
I love, we also call it slaw, sometimes with a side of slaw.
I love a hot dog with a side of coleslaw.
My favorite meals.
So coleslaw.
Moving on, we have an interesting sauce.
It's Greek, I believe.
That is correct.
And I'm not going to try to pronounce it because I might mess it up.
So I'm going to leave that one to you.
Well, I don't speak Greek, but this is how we say it in America.
Tzatziki.
Tzatziki is a food that comes from Greece, like you said.
In America, we have a lot of different foods, in Europe too, wherever.
People come from all over the place.
And in America, we've adopted a number of foods.
One of these foods is tzatziki.
It's a white yogurt dip.
So usually in tzatziki, there is some onion, some cucumber, some pepper, but it's a really
good thick, creamy yogurt dip that you use with bread or chips.
And that's actually our next word.
You mentioned it's a dip.
So you're using that as a noun and that's our next word, dip.
Dip.
So basically, a dip is a kind of food that you eat with other foods.
So it's like a sauce.
It's a sauce for finger foods.
So basically, a dip is a food you eat with other foods.
So you can have chips and dip.
That would be potato chips with dip.
And sometimes you have tomato dip or cheese dip.
In this case, we have tzatziki or blue cheese dip.
Blue cheese dip.
But actually, it's also a verb, right?
To dip.
So when you take your potato chip and you dip it in the dip.
Dip it in the dip.
So you dip your potato chip in the dip.
So those are all the words that we have for you today on Language Takeaway.
Why don't we go back, listen to the dialogue again, and we'll be back in a bit with Fluency
Honey, we're all out of wine and cheese.
Can't wait.
Your friends and family are coming over tonight, and we still need to get a lot of things.
Pick up some cured meats to go with the wine.
Also, get some coleslaw and a jar of olives.
Whoa, wait a minute.
I mean, how much is all this going to cost?
Is that all, Your Majesty?
Now let's take a look at three key phrases on Fluency Builder.
This first one is a very, very common phrase.
We use this a lot in English when we're maybe running late or you need something very quickly.
We say, hey, can you run to the store and get this?
Or do you mind running to the deli?
So the verb here is to run to.
Run to.
Run to the deli.
Does this mean that you're actually going to walk very fast to the deli?
You're going to run?
This is not, okay, I'm going to go to the deli and I'm going to get some food.
No, this is going quickly.
So I could say, Marco, I have no time.
Can you run to the store and get me some milk, please?
Okay, so that means just go really quickly in your car, your motorcycle, any way you
Or walking, yeah, exactly.
So that's run to the store, run to the deli.
In this case, we saw it in the sentence, do you mind running to the deli?
So do you mind going quickly?
So this is going quickly.
Do you mind running to the deli?
This is a thing that we can do.
And so she was telling him what to get and he's like, whoa, this is going to be really
And she answered with this phrase, never mind that.
Okay, this is a phrase that we use when we want to say, don't worry about it.
That doesn't matter.
It's not important.
So, never mind, you could say by itself, never mind, forget about it.
But never mind that is like saying, this argument is over, it's not a problem.
So never mind that.
As I was saying, let's go to the store.
So it's not important, it's not relevant, don't worry about it.
And the last phrase that we have for you is a very interesting phrase when the girl said,
you know what, very funny, but get a move on.
So as we often say here at EnglishPod, this is the kind of phrase we have to look at as
a chunk, as a unit, as one piece.
You can say get, get me this, or I move, I moved my house.
But get a move on means hurry up.
Start leaving now.
Go, go to the store, be quick about it.
So this is a command.
Okay, so take it as a phrase, just like you know the phrase hurry up or go quickly.
Remember the phrase get a move on as a way of saying, come on, quickly, go, go, go, quickly.
Or as I always say when I'm with friends and we're going slowly somewhere, I say, hey,
guys, let's get a move on.
Let's get a move on.
They're going to close.
Let's go here.
So get a move on.
Get a move on and why don't we go back and listen to the dialogue for one last time.
Okay, pick up some cured meats to go with the wine.
Maybe a pound of Polish sausages, ham, liverwurst, salami and any other cold cuts that are on
Is that all, your majesty?
So now, Catherine, I understand you're a big fan of pickles and olives and all that stuff.
I love cured food.
Pickled.
Have you ever had a pickled tomato?
I hate pickled tomatoes.
Pickled tomatoes, pickled pickles, pickled olives, everything.
I love it all.
I hate, I actually, there are a couple of things that I don't really like.
For example, coleslaw, you mentioned that it has cabbage in it and many people may know
this vegetable as this purple lettuce, right?
It looks like a lettuce, but it's purple.
I hate it.
I don't like it.
And I actually hate olives and pickles.
I can't really eat them.
Sounds like you don't like bitter things like vinegar, olives.
Yeah, yeah, no.
Not a big fan.
I'm not a big fan of anything that's bitter.
It's one of my favorite.
I love salty foods and I love bitter foods and that's all I have to say about it.
I've never really understood how people have like a whole pickle and they take it out of
the jar and they just bite into it.
It's like, that's nasty.
Well, the adjective to describe a pickle's flavor is sour.
Sour.
It's very sour.
And in America, at delis, you can buy full sours or half sours.
Some pickles are less sour than others.
We call it a half sour.
My favorite pickles are full sours.
Make you cry a little bit.
The whole pickle thing, is this very American?
Because you always have pickles in burgers, for example, right?
You go to McDonald's, you have pickles in burgers.
Is this very American or is this coming from another place?
It comes from Europe.
A lot of German food involves pickles, pickled vegetables.
The Koreans also, Korean food has a lot of pickled vegetables like kimchi, which is pickled
cabbage.
And in Chinese culture as well, a lot of pickled foods.
So I think this is something that's very common all over the world.
You can have pickled fish.
You can pickle anything.
I don't know if we pickle things in Latin America.
This is why it seems very strange to me.
But this is a really interesting topic.
Why don't you let us know what your favorite cured meats are?
I know there are a lot of different types.
And if you like pickles or not, maybe some people out there will support me and say they
don't like pickles.
And if you have delis in your home country, let us know.
I've always been curious about this.
Do you have delis or do you just have a butcher shop?
So we'll see everyone there, EnglishPod.com.
And today we have a very healthy lesson for everyone.
We are going to have healthy food.
So we're going to the grocery store and we're choosing what food to buy.
You're going to hear a lot of words about eating right and eating healthy.
So let's jump into this dialogue first and we'll be back in a moment to talk more about
Okay darling, I got some pizzas, potato chips, hot dogs and lots of cheese.
Oh John, I thought we said we'd start eating right.
Remember?
Our new healthy lifestyle.
That's all junk food.
Huh.
Right, so what did you get?
Well healthy food, of course.
I got some whole wheat bread, skimmed milk, fresh fish and organic carrots.
Organic?
What's organic?
Do we need organic carrots?
They were grown without using any chemicals that are harmful to our health.
And yes John, we need organic carrots.
Oh, so organic vegetables are the green option, right?
Yep, better for the environment and better for us.
Donuts?
Are they organic donuts, Kelly?
But I like donuts.
So it's a very popular topic nowadays.
People want to eat light.
So why don't we take a look at some of these words and phrases now in Language Takeaway.
The first kind of food we have here is whole wheat bread.
So maybe you're buying bread at the grocery store and you see a number of different kinds
of bread.
There's white bread, there's rye bread.
Well we have whole wheat bread which is maybe the healthiest option.
So it's made out of wheat.
Alright so we have whole wheat bread.
Now as you say, it's a type of bread that uses wheat as its main ingredient.
Right, so it's made from wheat flour.
It's usually a brownish kind of bread.
That means the color is brown, not white.
And it's healthier than white bread because white bread uses that processed flour, right?
It's processed and also uses a lot more sugar.
Okay, so whole wheat bread is a healthy option.
And also we are having skimmed milk.
Alright, so as you know when milk comes out of the cow, it's very very fatty.
There's lots of fat.
And so skimmed milk means that when the dairy is processing the milk, the fat is taken away.
So this is one of the healthier kinds of milk.
You have fat-free and skimmed milk which are the healthiest.
So when you buy normal milk, what is that called?
Well you have whole milk.
Whole milk.
And you also have 2% milk which is 2% fat.
And then skimmed milk and fat-free milk.
Okay good.
Now when we were talking about the carrots, she said, you know what, we also bought organic
carrots.
So this is a very popular word nowadays.
Organic vegetables, organic carrots.
What does it mean if it's organic?
Well in general, things that are organic come from nature.
But in food, things that are organic don't use chemicals.
So a lot of people are very nervous about food that comes from farms that have pesticides
or chemicals on them.
But organic food is safe in this area.
There's no pesticides or chemicals.
So what about when you talk about chickens or animals, they also say it's an organic
farm.
That means that they don't have chemicals injected into them.
They're not stuffed with chemicals or given chemical shots.
And also the food that they eat is real food.
It's not like chemical food to make them fatter.
So organic foods.
And you mentioned the word chemicals a lot.
So when we talk about chemicals, we're talking about substances that are artificial, right?
They're not organic.
These are things that are chemicals that scientists come up with to help make food.
For example, help make fatter chickens or to make greener vegetables.
And these are not natural.
These are man-made.
And chemicals can also mean pesticides.
So some sprays or things that we put on plants to keep the bugs away.
And these are all things that have been found to hurt human beings.
I guess, for example, when you are eating something and you see in the box and it says
it has certain preservatives, those are chemicals, right?
That help keep the food fresh for a longer period of time.
So those are chemicals and that's the last word that we have for you on language takeaway.
Four key words here.
Why don't we go back, listen to the dialogue again, and we'll be back in a bit.
Okay darling, I got some pizzas, potato chips, hot dogs, and lots of cheese.
So what did you get?
Well, healthy food, of course.
I got some whole wheat bread, skimmed milk, fresh fish, and organic carrots.
And yes, John, we need organic carrots.
Better for the environment and better for us.
So now let's take a look at three key phrases on Fluency Builder.
This first key phrase is one that I think was very, very common in America in the late
80s, early 1990s.
People in America have been struggling with eating healthy food and not eating so much
fatty food.
And so there was an emphasis on eating right.
To eat right.
Now, how do you eat right?
I mean, it sounds like you want to eat with your spoon correctly.
No, eating right is more about the kind of food you eat.
It's about not eating pizza every day, pizza and hamburgers.
So we say eating right involves having a balanced diet.
That means eating vegetables and grains and a little bit of meat and not so many sweets
or oils.
So that's what it means when you are eating right.
So you have to eat right.
That means eating healthy.
Now the opposite, if you're not eating healthy, that's because maybe you're eating too much
junk food.
And that's our next phrase.
So junk food is junk garbage food.
It's the kind of food that is very unhealthy for you.
Potato chips, pizza, ice cream.
It's all the best kind of food.
But it's also the worst for your body.
So we call it junk food.
So everything that's, for example, fast food is usually considered to be junk food.
Yes, it's high in oils and fats.
So junk food.
And for the last phrase for today.
And for the last phrase, we are starting a healthy lifestyle.
So what does he mean by a healthy lifestyle?
Well, we don't say life.
We say lifestyle because this is the way in which a person lives.
It's your lifestyle.
So this involves exercise, diet, what kind of food you eat, the way that you work.
Do you get too much sleep?
Not enough sleep.
So your lifestyle is about the choices you make in all parts of your life.
And so having a healthy lifestyle, as I said, it's not just about not eating junk food.
It's about running five miles or trying to get eight hours of sleep.
So it's important to maintain a healthy lifestyle.
And usually in the news, we always hear, so usually in the news, we hear this phrase,
not healthy life, but healthy lifestyle.
So maybe somebody that leads a dangerous lifestyle maybe has a job that's very dangerous.
Or an unhealthy lifestyle, someone who eats one meal a day.
So those are key phrases for fluency builder.
Why don't we go back, listen to the dialogue for the last time, and we'll be back to talk
with you a little bit more.
Okay, darling, I got some pizzas, potato chips, hot dogs, and lots of cheese.
Oh, John, I thought we said we'd start eating right.
Remember our new healthy lifestyle.
They're good for the environment and better for us.
So talking about healthy food and healthy eating, how healthy do you eat, Katherine?
I think I eat pretty decently.
I try to eat a balanced diet.
Like I said earlier, I think a balanced diet is a key to a healthy lifestyle.
I don't really eat fast food.
I try not to eat too much meat or too much sugar.
What about organic stuff?
Are you a big fan of organic vegetables, organic meats?
And this comes from a part of the dialogue we didn't cover.
One of the characters says that vegetables are the green option.
So trying to eat organic food and think about green is a part of thinking about the environment.
And so I think eating organic vegetables is an important part of caring about the environment
because the more chemicals, the more pesticides we put into the world, the more harmful it
is for the earth, for animals and for ourselves.
Yeah, that's absolutely true.
And it has become a more popular aspect around America and Europe, people choosing to go
with organic vegetables, for example, eggs that were grown on an organic farm.
And so it is the healthier option and obviously the green option as we saw in the dialogue.
Okay, so a very interesting topic.
We want to know what your opinion is on it.
Why don't you come to our website EnglishPod.com and tell us if you are a fan of the light
or green organic lifestyle or maybe you just really don't really care.
Maybe you love junk food.
Let us know EnglishPod.com.
My name is Catherine and today we're talking about helping other people.
We are going to volunteer and to help other people that maybe don't have as much as we
do and so this is a way to give back to the community.
So this is an intermediate level lesson and before we get going, we have a phrase to preview
in today's vocabulary preview.
So in vocabulary preview today, we have this phrase, a soup kitchen or it's a noun, a soup
kitchen.
A soup kitchen is a place.
Basically, it is a place where volunteers can help cook and serve people who don't have
enough money to feed themselves.
So that's a soup kitchen.
It's basically a place where people can get free food.
So this is where we're going to be today.
We are at a soup kitchen and we're going to hear a couple of people talking about helping
out at a soup kitchen.
Thanks a lot for pitching in once again, Judy.
We really appreciate your help.
It seems that at this time of year, there are more and more people who are struggling
to make ends meet.
There aren't many professional chefs like you who are so generous with their time.
Don't be silly, Mark.
I'm more than happy to devote my time to a good cause.
Volunteering at the soup kitchen has been really rewarding for me.
You know, it's satisfying to provide good meals for those who are less fortunate.
I feel like I'm really making a difference in some small way.
Well, your skills are definitely appreciated here.
The people who come here have fallen on hard times and a delicious hot meal can really
bolster their spirits.
Wow, that smells great.
The needy are sure lucky to have you.
Thanks Mark.
Enjoy your meal.
Thank you, my dear.
Oh, this looks lovely.
You're welcome.
Today we have George.
What are you doing here?
Hey, Judy.
I'll have a little of everything.
Mmm, smells great.
George, seriously, what are you doing here?
I haven't seen you since our divorce was finalized.
You've got no right to be here.
You're hardly homeless.
Don't be like that, Judy.
I really miss your home cooking.
So obviously this person, what was he, George, he didn't really need the food, but apparently
I think he's divorced from his wife and he was like, oh, I need your food.
But other people that were there were very much in need of this food.
So why don't we take a look at some of the words and phrases on Language Takeaway.
Well, we've got a couple of interesting words here at the beginning that have to do with
volunteering or helping other people.
The first phrase we have actually is to pitch in.
That's right, to pitch in.
So when you pitch in, that's a way of saying helping, right?
That's right, to help.
So I could ask you for your help with something.
I could say, hey, Marco, can you pitch in a little of your time with this project I
have?
Okay, so dedicate or to help, to pitch in.
So when you pitch in, you are helping.
This is a really common phrase, very colloquial though, right?
To pitch in, that's right.
And then moving on, another adjective.
When a person likes to help or gives money to the poor, that person is generous.
So generous is an adjective.
It means a person can be generous or an effort can be generous.
For example, a very famous generous person is Mother Teresa of Calcutta.
I was thinking Warren Buffett, but both of them are very generous.
Mother Teresa for giving back to the poor and Warren Buffett for donating most of his
So that is a sign of a person that is generous.
So usually generous people like Warren Buffett, you say he gave away his fortune to people
that didn't have money.
We call these people the less fortunate.
So as you said, we've got three words here that mean poor people basically.
And we don't like to say poor people in English because it's not very nice.
You know, people can't control their situation in many cases and it's more of a situation
of not having what others have.
And so one way to say this is less fortunate.
So a person that's less fortunate is a person that's poor.
So for example, we often try to help the less fortunate by volunteering our time.
Okay, so fortunate is a way of saying that you have fortune or you have luck.
So if you say you are very fortunate, that means that you are very lucky.
Okay, so less fortunate means poor.
And another way of saying that somebody is poor, you say that person is needy.
Needy.
So this probably makes you think of the word need to need and you're right.
This comes from need.
So someone who is needy needs things, needs money, needs help, needs food.
Okay, even attention, right?
Somebody that's needy might need a lot of attention all the time.
So this could actually be a bad thing.
Someone who's needy says, look at me, look at me.
Oh my gosh, look at me, listen to me.
And that can be very annoying.
Okay, so the needy.
And now finally, a very common word to say that somebody is very poor, doesn't have a
place to live, doesn't have a home.
You say that person is homeless.
Homeless literally means without a home.
And so we often talk about the homeless as being a group of people we want to help in
society because the homeless live on the streets, they live in public and in the winter and
times when it's really, really cold, it's very dangerous for them.
So the homeless are a group that people try to help with these soup kitchens and shelters.
So a lot of interesting words, common phrases, they're very useful.
So why don't we go back, listen to this dialogue again and we'll be back in a little bit with
I'm more than happy to donate my time to a good cause.
Today, we have George.
Smells great.
Don't worry, I'm not homeless.
I'm just a little homeless.
I'm not homeless.
I'm a homeless person.
Mostly, the little house, actually.
There is no need to be here.
Yes, Joe.
I'm Sergeant Hstock.
It's great to see you.
So, on Fluency Builder, today we have three key phrases.
So, we're gonna take a look at those now.
So, what is that first phrase?
Our first phrase comes from the starting of the dialogue with Mark who says there are
some people who are struggling to make ends meet.
So, the phrase here is, to make ends meet.
Make ends meet.
So, if you take a look at this phrase, it's very hard to determine what that actually
Think about a string.
If you want to make a circle out of that string, you have to connect the ends.
I think of that as being about your income and the money that you spend.
I cannot make ends meet if I earn $10 every week but I spend $15 on my house and my food.
So, not being able to make ends meet means you spend more than you earn.
That's not about cars and fancy TVs.
That's about your house, your heat, your bills, and your food.
But I say, I've been able to make ends meet for a while now because I have a pretty good
So, to make ends meet is to be able to pay for your necessities.
But he can't make ends meet means he can't support himself financially.
To make ends meet is pretty much to satisfy your basic necessities.
Financially.
And moving on, when we were talking about generosity and people helping out, if you
help people that are less fortunate, you are making a difference in a small way.
So, this is a phrase that we hear all the time in the States.
I'm not sure if it's the same in other English-speaking countries but it's a very popular phrase.
We talk about making a difference or trying to make a difference and it's not very clear
what a difference really is.
But generally this means doing good things for other people.
So, celebrities try to make a difference with their money and their fame.
Some people try to make a difference by working at homeless shelters or at soup kitchens.
And so, there are many different ways to make a difference.
But it's basically the idea that you volunteer or you give money to help other people.
And if for example you recycle, you can say you're making a difference in the environment.
You're making a difference.
Usually a difference is a positive thing.
So, keep that in mind.
And for the last phrase on Fluency Builder today, we say that people who come here have
fallen on hard times.
So, people that have fallen on hard times.
What does it mean if you fall on hard times?
Well, basically hard times are difficulties, right?
So, not being able to make ends meet, not being able to pay for your food and your housing.
And so, we have the verb to fall.
You've fallen on hard times because you've gone from a place where you're comfortable
to a lower place, a place where life is really hard.
And so, think of this as a fixed phrase.
He fell on hard times or they fell on hard times.
This means they don't have much money or they can't support themselves or they went bankrupt,
for example.
So, somebody that loses their job may have fallen on hard times.
And there's one more phrase here that deserves a little attention.
We heard this word to bolster.
To bolster is a verb that means to improve.
So, a hot meal can really bolster their spirits.
It means it can make them feel better.
So, to bolster their spirits means to make them feel happier, to lift their spirits.
Exactly what you said, to make them feel happier.
So, a lot of interesting phrases there.
Phrases that you can talk in English about making a difference, about volunteering.
Very interesting stuff.
Very good for conversations between friends and family.
So, why don't we go back, listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back to talk a little bit
Volunteering at the Soup Kitchen has been really rewarding for me.
I'll have a little of everything, thanks.
So talking about volunteering, have you ever done any volunteer work?
I've done it a bit, actually.
What have you done?
Back when I was living in the United States, in Chicago, I used to cook for a homeless shelter
every week.
So I would bring food every Thursday.
So you cook at home and you bring the food over to the shelter?
So the shelter had a kitchen, but they used donations from people because there are so
many people who came there for food.
And once a month I would volunteer to also serve the food.
So I would bring lasagna or pasta, things that most people like.
And then once a month I would sit down with people and talk.
You know, a lot of people are lonely when they're in homeless shelters because they
come alone or maybe it's the mother and her child.
It's nice to also come and sit and talk to them.
No, it's very interesting and I think volunteering is a much better solution than, for example,
just giving out money to poor people or something like that.
I don't think that's really the solution.
I think you should dedicate your time and your energy to making a difference, like in
And I think that the other benefit is for you, the volunteer, because it changes your
perspective on poverty and on humanity.
And you think about, well, you know, I could be this person.
He was a banker two years ago and now he doesn't have a house.
And so I think it has a positive effect on everybody involved.
No, I think it's a very rewarding experience.
And I think EnglishPod definitely supports that you should volunteer, you should make
a difference.
And I think we can all help each other, right?
Have you ever volunteered?
What kind of volunteer work have you done?
Has it been environmental or social?
My name is Catherine and today we have an upper intermediate level lesson.
It's kind of bitter, it's a little bit sad, but it's also kind of sweet.
We have a lesson today all about getting a divorce or divorcing someone.
So this is what happens when two people's marriage ends.
They decide they want to leave each other.
They have a divorce.
So let's take a listen to today's dialogue and we'll be back in a moment.
Joanne, let's not make this divorce any more acrimonious than it already is, okay?
Let's just get down to business and start dividing this stuff up fairly so we can go
our separate ways, all right?
Fine with me.
I just want to get this over with.
It's important we make a clean break.
I should have signed a prenup.
Anyway, you're right.
There's no reason this has to be nasty.
My lawyer tells me that you've accepted our alimony proposal and the division of property
as well as the custody agreement.
I keep the cat and you get the dog.
So that's done.
Well, let's not go there, Joanne.
Okay, so let's start with the record collection.
I'll take the albums I contributed and you can have your cheesy disco albums back.
Fine, but I'm keeping the antique gramophone as my grandfather gave it to me.
I believe that was a wedding present to both of us, Joanne, and you hardly ever use it.
He's my grandfather and he never really liked you anyway.
All right, I'll concede the silly gramophone if you'll agree that I get the silver tea
How typical.
When are you ever going to use a silver tea set?
I don't want to drag this out any more than necessary.
What's next?
What about these old photographs?
Which ones?
Oh, wow, look at that.
That brings back memories.
Remember that?
Our trip to Italy.
I remember that day.
We were going to visit the Trevi Fountain and we got caught in the rain.
And you looked so adorable with your hair all wet.
I did take a picture of you standing there in that little alley, smiling and laughing
in the rain.
Oh, we really did have fun back then, didn't we?
Oh, Joanne, are we making a big mistake?
I know our relationship has been on the rocks for some time, but are you sure we can't reconcile
and try again?
I still love you.
Oh, Jeff, I love you too.
I'm so glad we didn't have to decide who keeps the motorcycle.
The motorcycle?
But that's mine!
So now, why don't we take a look at six key words on Language Takeaway.
Language Takeaway Okay, Marco, this first word is what we call
an SAT word.
That means it's very difficult, it's so hard that many high school students in America
study it before they go to college.
Acrimonious.
So, the sentence starts off by saying, let's not make this divorce any more acrimonious
than it already is.
This divorce is very acrimonious, but let's not make it worse.
Okay, so acrimonious would be bitter, very complicated.
So people, emotional about it, you know, people, Joanne and Jeff are getting a divorce.
They're very angry at each other.
So they're not having a peaceful divorce.
This is the opposite.
It's very bitter, it's very angry.
Can you say this test is very acrimonious?
Usually, relationships are acrimonious.
For example, ever since they had that big fight, Jeff and Joanne's relationship has
been very acrimonious.
So, acrimonious, a very hard word there.
As you say, many people study it to pass exams in order to go into college.
So now you know.
Now, moving on, we have a very common legal term.
When people are getting married, they want to sign sometimes a prenup.
Yeah, you said it's common.
You hear this a lot in movies and TV.
Yeah, with celebrities.
Yeah, you read about celebrities.
So basically, a prenup is a short way of saying a prenuptial agreement.
Nuptial means having to do with marriage.
So basically, if you sign a prenup, you are agreeing to certain conditions before you
get married.
It's a contract between future husband and future wife about what happens if they divorce.
For example, I decided not to get a prenup with my fiancé because I don't think we'll
get divorced.
But maybe he decided to get a prenup because in case they divorce, he wants to keep his
car.
So it usually happens a lot with celebrities, as we say, because they have a lot of money.
And if they get divorced, then usually it can get complicated, how much money the spouse
gets, etc.
So maybe their prenuptial agreement or prenup will be that if they get divorced, the wife
may get maybe a million dollars instead of a hundred million dollars.
It's a way many people protect themselves financially in case of divorce.
Now, moving on, another legal term and related to money is an alimony.
Okay, so let's look at the context of this word.
Joanne is talking and she says, my lawyer tells me you've accepted our alimony proposal.
Alimony.
So this is probably something to do with money, right?
So she said that her lawyer has proposed an alimony and that's usually a settlement, an
amount of money that you agree on when you get divorced.
So this is exactly it.
In a divorce, this is how much money one person will pay the other.
So if two people are married and when they get a divorce, their alimony may be the husband.
If he's got a lot of money, he will pay an alimony of $500,000.
And so this is different from property, which is the next thing.
Division of property means that you talk about who will receive the car, the house, things
Lands.
So very complicated situations when you're getting divorced, the prenups and alimony.
But moving on, they were talking about custody as well.
Custody of maybe children, maybe custody of their pets.
So you talk about alimony, this is money, property, which is things.
But what about people and animals?
This is called custody.
I want custody.
Custody means caring for something or looking after something.
You could say the child is in the grandmother's custody.
Okay, so in the care of the grandmother.
So usually as well, when people get divorced, somebody gets custody of the children.
So he wants custody, but he doesn't have a job, so she will receive custody.
You could say that.
In this case, though, we're talking about custody of pets, animals.
In this case, it's animals.
But it's actually true, right?
People when they get divorced, they may ask the court for custody of their pets.
And sometimes custody is what makes a divorce extremely acrimonious.
Who gets to keep the children?
Who gets to keep the pets?
Now moving on and a little bit away from legal terms, they were dividing up their property
and saying, well, I get to keep this, you get to keep that.
And Joanne said, I'm keeping the antique gramophone as my grandfather gave it to me.
Ha, so who cares about pets and money?
I want the gramophone.
So this is actually a word you don't hear very often anymore.
It's an old thing.
And that's what antique means, right?
Antique is old.
So antique, this is an adjective here.
It can also be a noun.
An antique table, an antique gramophone is something that's very old, like 100 years
old or 150 years old.
And a gramophone is one of those machines that you see in movies that play the old vinyl
records and has like a big horn where the sound echoes.
So in the 19th century, early 20th century, people didn't have CDs or MP3s or iPods.
This is how they listened to music.
So you usually have a hand crank.
You have to turn the machine and then the music will play and you can dance and do whatever.
So that's a gramophone.
Now, moving on to our last word, Jeff said, you know what?
OK, fine.
Keep the gramophone.
I'll concede the silly gramophone.
So to concede.
To concede means to give up an argument.
OK, so you give up, you give in, you say, all right, take it.
That's exactly right.
So in this case, the argument is who will receive the gramophone?
They fight, they argue.
And finally, Jeff says, I concede.
OK, I give up.
You take it.
And is it only for things or can you also concede someone, like you say somebody is
You can say that or in election, for example, there are two people who want to be president.
And the vote is counted and it's not clear who the president is.
And one person says, fine, I concede.
That means I give up.
Six key words there.
They're very interesting, especially the legal terms.
And it's very it's very common and it's very useful for you to know next time you're watching
maybe a movie or something related to this topic.
Hopefully not the next time you're getting divorced.
But move let's move on now to four key phrases that we have for everyone on Fluency Builder.
Margo, let's get this over with.
I want to go home.
Let's get it over with.
Just do it and get it over with.
So this is our first phrase in Fluency Builder.
To get this over with or to get it over with.
OK, so let's take that as a phrase.
And to get something over with means this just finish it quickly.
Let's stop delaying.
This is a this is a way to ask to finish something quickly or to stop something.
So for example, I have to go to the dentist later.
Maybe I really don't want to go.
I'll say to myself, oh, let me just get this over with.
And once it's done, I don't have to worry about it.
Or maybe you have homework to do.
And instead of doing it later, you're like, OK, I'm going to do it now and just get it
over with.
To get over with to get something over with.
And when they were talking about breaking up or separating, Joanne mentioned it's important
we make a clean break.
What does she mean by making a clean break?
We hear this phrase all the time.
It's a very important phrase in the relationships.
It means when two people leave each other, you don't then call them or see each other
or hang out.
It means a clean break.
You stop all together.
You stop something completely.
So you don't talk anymore.
You don't see each other anymore.
You completely just stop contact with each other.
You can also say this about breaking something.
You could say it was a clean break.
When I broke my arm, it was a clean break.
There were no little pieces of bone or any problems.
It was a clean break.
That means completely broke.
So when we talk about clean break in a relationship, it means we completely break up.
We stop talking to each other and it's over with.
So moving on, they were talking and completely, you know, arguing about I get the gramophone,
I get the tea set.
And Joanne said, OK, fine.
I don't want to drag this out any longer than necessary.
So you can hear her, I don't want to drag this out any longer than necessary.
So to drag something out means to extend, to make something longer, to make something
take more time than it should.
So, for example, if someone's giving a speech, they may be dragging it out.
And you're like, wait.
So someone's giving a very long speech.
You're like, oh, my God, he's dragging the speech out so long.
When will he ever stop?
Or you could say in an argument, I'm tired of arguing.
Let's not drag this out anymore.
Let's just stop.
So to drag something out is usually time related to make things longer than necessary.
And for our last phrase, when Jeff was talking about the relationship, he says, I know a
relationship has been on the rocks for some time.
So the relationship was on the rocks.
So this is an interesting phrase.
Think about rocks.
You know, you see rocks on the ground in the ocean.
Something that's on the rocks, in this case, means something that is not going well.
Something that has problems.
Not going smooth.
Yes, it's not smooth.
So, when Jeff says our relationship has been on the rocks, he's saying we fight a lot.
We have problems.
So, if I say, my company has been on the rocks recently, it means it's not doing very well.
Business is not going well.
So, you can use this for different things.
Now, obviously, you may have heard it before for drinks.
You say, scotch on the rocks.
In that sentence, Marco's talking about ice.
So, that's different if you ask for a drink on the rocks.
But if you describe yourself or your company or relationship as being on the rocks, it
means you're having a tough time.
It's a bad situation.
So, it's a very useful phrase.
I think that's very native, very colloquial if you say something like this.
It's a great phrase to use.
I encourage you.
I mean, I hope that your situation, your work and your relationships are not on the rocks.
But I do hope that when you're practicing speaking, use this phrase a lot because it's
really, really colloquial like you say, Marco.
So, I think we've taken a look at a lot of phrases, a lot of vocab.
Why don't we go back, listen to the dialogue for one last time.
Madam please.
disco albums back. Fine, but I'm keeping the antique gramophone as my grandfather
gave it to me. I believe that was a wedding present to both of us Joanne and
you hardly ever use it. He's my grandfather and he never really liked
you anyway. Whatever! Alright I'll concede this silly gramophone if you agree that
I get the silver tea set. How typical, when are you ever going to use a silver
tea set? Fine, I don't want to drag this out any more than necessary.
What's next? What about these old photographs? Which ones? Let me have a
look. Oh wow look at that, that brings back memories. Remember that? Our trip to
Italy, I remember that day. We were going to visit the Trevi Fountain and we got
caught in the rain. And you looked so adorable with your hair all wet. I did
take a picture of you standing there in that little alley smiling and laughing
in the rain. Oh we really did have fun back then didn't we? Oh Joanne, are we
making a big mistake? I know our relationship has been on the rocks for
some time, but are you sure we can't reconcile and try again? I still love
you. Oh Jeff, I love you too. I'm so glad we didn't have to decide who keeps the
motorcycle. The motorcycle? But that's mine!
Alright we're back. So a very interesting dialogue all about divorce. Now this is a
very common situation nowadays in many countries such as the United States or
Europe. Divorce rates are very high lately like in the past 10-20 years. Yeah
they do say that since maybe the 70s or 80s divorce rates have been on the rise.
I think the average now in America is about 50%. Yeah it's like 5 in 10
marriages and in divorce. That's right. And then from what I understand or I
read once, I think out of those 50% that get divorced, if they remarry again the
probabilities of those that get remarried are again half. So most likely
people will get divorced at least twice. That's true. Although sometimes you meet
people who got married when they were very very young and they realized that
they grew up a little bit and their personality changed or their goals
changed and they divorced that one time but then later in life when they marry
again they know who they are. They get married again and it's better. So I think
the situations are all quite different but it is true that there are a lot of a
lot of divorces in America. What about Ecuador though? I mean is the divorce
rate similar? No not really. I think people are still a little bit more
old-fashioned in that sense like it was before you know it was even a little bit
taboo to be divorced. Yeah. But I don't think people get divorced as often
especially if people have been together for quite a while. That's one of the
things that surprises me a lot is I've met people who have been married 20-30
years and then get divorced. It's like what if it's like you've been through
the toughest times you know you've pretty much beat the odds and why do you
get divorced at such a late age? Yeah it does seem counterintuitive but it's
possible that they were unhappy for that time and they didn't want to affect
their children's lives. Right. So when their children go to college or leave
they say okay now I can I can you know make a big decision. I know in countries
for example such as Chile divorce is still illegal. I think in the Philippines
as well. Really? Yeah it's still illegal to get divorced. Is that because they're
very religious countries? I know Chile is not really that religious. I don't
know what it is exactly by law but a lot of people I think it may be legal now I
can't really remember very well I think one of our Chilean listeners can help
us out here but I know a lot of people used to annul their marriages because of
this. I see. So they would be like oh I put the wrong address so no this marriage
is not it's not valid. Right or I spelled my name wrong. Yeah yeah. Interesting. Well I'd be
curious to know as you said whether any of our Chilean friends know more about
this or for the rest of you in your country is divorce common? Is it
uncommon? Are there laws that prohibit or that allow divorce? Let us know on our
website EnglishPod.com. Alright we'll see you guys there. Bye.
My name is Katrin and today we have an elementary level lesson for you.
This one is especially for people who are interested in babies.
Maybe you have a baby, you will have a baby, maybe you're pregnant and this is a great
lesson for that because we are talking about a baby shower.
Okay, so before we get started, let's take a look at vocabulary preview and learn what
exactly a baby shower is.
Okay, so a baby shower.
You would think that this is about bathing the baby, about giving the baby a bath.
No, not a real shower.
A baby shower or a bridal shower, these are parties.
Okay, they're parties.
And in this case, a baby shower is a party that you throw for a woman that is pregnant,
So if my sister is going to have a baby, I throw her a baby shower.
It's a party where all of her friends give her gifts.
Yeah, it's a way to celebrate having a baby.
Okay, so they give her gifts, you'll play games as well as to like maybe guess the name
of the baby or guess the sex of the baby.
Stuff like that.
Okay, so it's a very common thing.
I think it's mostly for women.
I don't really know if men have baby showers as well.
I don't think so either.
But it's a very popular tradition in the United States and many other parts of the world.
So we're going to talk about that.
Let's listen to the dialogue for the first time.
Thank you for organizing this great baby shower for me.
I've always been to baby showers but never actually had one held for me.
Okay, let's start opening some presents.
Oh, look, what a great little bib for the baby.
This will definitely come in handy.
Oh, wow, you also got me a stroller.
That's so great.
This next one is from Betty.
A high chair and a car seat.
Wow, Betty, thank you so much.
One more from Carla.
A playpen and crib.
Thanks, Carla.
This is just what I needed.
Okay, that's all of them.
No more gifts.
Now who wants to guess when the baby is due?
I think my water just broke.
Get me to a hospital.
All right, so very interesting.
All the gifts that they got and definitely very useful because this is a very common
items that you get for babies, right?
This stuff is really, really valuable because if you have a baby or if your brother or sister
has a baby, you'll notice that these are very common items.
So let's go through a couple of them in today's Language Takeaway.
Okay, so the first word that we're going to take a look at, the most common one and useful
one for a baby is a bib.
Bib.
So, babies are messy.
When they eat food, they get their food on their clothes.
So to protect the clothes, babies wear bibs.
This is a piece of cloth or fabric around their neck.
Okay, a bib.
And also, sometimes you want to go out with your baby to the mall, you're walking and
you don't want to carry him in your arms all the time.
So you need a stroller.
Okay, so basically a stroller is a chair on wheels for a baby.
Babies are heavy and as they get older, they get heavier.
And so this is a way to push the baby around, not carry the baby.
Right, and maybe the baby falls asleep, so they can fall asleep in the stroller.
Okay, and while talking about chairs, we're going to take a look at two different types
of chairs.
First one is a high chair.
Okay, high chair.
Think about the word high, that means tall in this case.
A high chair is a chair for babies at the table.
So if you put a baby on a regular chair, they can't eat with adults.
Right, they're too small.
So we give them high chairs so that they can sit a little bit higher and they can be at
the table with adults.
So they're very common.
For example, you go to a restaurant, they will have a little high chairs if you have
a baby or a small child.
So if you're at a restaurant, you have a baby, you ask for a high chair.
You say, do you have a high chair, please?
Yeah, perfect.
And well, if you're going to the restaurant or you go anywhere in your car, you need to
have the baby be safe and obviously they can't fit on a normal seat.
No, with a seat belt?
No, I don't think so.
So that's why you get them a car seat.
Okay, a car seat is a special chair that goes on the seat of the car and usually it's very,
very safe.
It's made to protect the baby.
So if you are ever in a car accident, the car seat will help protect the small baby.
So it's supposed to go in the back of the car, not the front.
And now moving on to our last two words.
If you're at home, you sometimes want to have the baby play and you get them a play pen.
So basically this is a way for parents to leave the baby playing but not look at the
baby the whole time.
A play pen is like a cage for a baby, but it's soft and it's cute and it's pretty.
So it's basically like an open area that's protected on the sides and the baby can go
inside but the baby can't leave.
It's like a cage basically and it has little toys and that's the way you just keep them
in there for a while.
And now when you want to put the baby to sleep, it can't obviously sleep in a big bed because
it might roll over, it might fall off.
There's a lot of things that can go wrong, so you get them a crib.
So a crib is a bed for babies.
This is usually high off the ground and it's usually quite small and the baby can't climb
out of it.
So it's a very safe bed so the baby can't fall out, can't climb out.
So very interesting, very useful things for you if you're having a baby, planning on getting
these things.
So why don't we go back, listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back with Fluency Builder.
Let's start opening some presents.
Oh look, what a great little bib for the baby.
Oh wow, you also got me a stroller.
So now let's take a look at two key phrases.
Easy Builder.
Okay, so at the beginning of the dialogue, the woman receives a bib for the baby and
she says, this will definitely come in handy.
To come in handy.
Right, so when something comes in handy, it means it will be useful.
Okay, so something that's handy is useful.
To come in handy means to be useful.
It will be useful in the future.
So for example, you should take a flashlight with you in the car just in case because it
could come in handy.
Or if I know that Marco is traveling to India, I can give him a map of India.
I say, Marco, this map might come in handy.
So to come in handy or in something that is handy, something that's useful.
And towards the end, a very popular phrase you probably heard in every movie that has
like maybe a pregnant woman in there.
My water just broke.
My water broke.
Okay, so the woman says, my water broke.
Take me to the hospital.
Okay, so this means I'm having my baby right now.
So why do they say that the water broke?
Because actually water kind of breaks, right?
I think there's a protective water cushion.
Basically there's a sack of water protecting the baby.
It's not just water.
It's all sorts of like body fluids.
And basically when that breaks, it comes out and you know that you're going to have the
baby because that means the baby has to come out now because that protective fluid is gone.
Maybe the baby just kind of kicks that water out and just like, I'm ready to come out.
I have no idea how it works.
All right, so very interesting stuff.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue for the last time.
Thanks Carla.
That's just what I needed.
All right, so talking about baby things and baby showers.
It's a very interesting tradition.
I understand that in other countries they don't really celebrate baby showers like this.
Yeah, or that if they do, they do it in different ways.
I know for example that sometimes in Latin American countries, they usually do it after
the baby's born.
Oh, so like a congratulations shower.
And then obviously you know if the baby was a boy or a girl, so then you get them like
pink things or blue things.
So it's a little bit more.
That's what's really funny about these.
People often want to have the surprise of not knowing if the baby will be a boy or a
So when they have the baby shower, they say, oh, I don't know what the gender is.
And so you end up buying all of these yellow things because yellow is neutral.
It's good for boys and girls.
I don't know how many yellow gifts I've got.
I think it's a very interesting thing because for example, I know that in China, I think
you can't ask the doctor for the gender of the baby before it's born, right?
I think that's a way to, I'm not sure if it's a rule or not, but it sounds right.
I mean, it's a way to protect female babies.
I think it would be always great to just have it be a surprise.
Yeah, just like, oh, you know, whatever comes out.
Can you imagine not knowing and then you have twins?
That would be great for me, I think, if I had like a boy and a girl, bam, all at once.
All at once, never have to worry about it again.
Exactly, and then you have the best of both worlds, right?
You're done.
All right, so very interesting topic.
Let us know if you have baby showers in your country or how do you celebrate a baby's birth
or before it's born?
What do you do?
Very good question.
We'll talk to you then.
Today we've got an intermediate level lesson for you.
If you're interested in buying furniture for your house, you should like this lesson.
We are going to talk about a ton of different furniture items that you can get to decorate
your house to make it all nice.
So we're going to talk about a lot of vocabulary today.
Pay attention while you're listening to some of the pieces of furniture that we talk about
and we'll be back in a moment to talk more about them.
How about this floor lamp?
Fine, just get it.
We have been shopping for furniture for five hours.
We still need to find an armoire and a dresser.
I'm going to go home and drop off this nightstand, coffee table, and loveseat while you look
for the rest of the things.
Pick me up in about an hour because I think I'll also get a bean bag and a dining set.
While you're at it, can you pick up a nice recliner?
I really want one so I can watch TV.
Recliner?
In my beautifully decorated living room?
So now what we're going to do is since we have so much vocab, we're going to take a
look at this language in two parts.
So now let's go to Language Takeaway Part 1.
Okay, so everyone's heard of a lamp, a light.
This is something that you use to read in the dark, for example, to see in the dark.
But in this case we have a floor lamp.
So this is a lamp you put on the floor.
So usually this lamp would be a lot taller.
It'll maybe be like a meter taller, a meter and a half maybe.
Okay, so for example, in your living room next to your sofa, you might have a very tall
floor lamp.
This allows you to get more light in the room.
Right, so sometimes you know the center light in your living room is not enough.
You want maybe more light in the corners, you get a little floor lamp.
Okay, so that's the first item.
Now that we go to the bedroom, we are getting an armoire.
Okay, an armoire.
This is kind of like a wardrobe.
It's a piece of furniture we use to keep clothes in, but usually they're hanging clothes.
Okay, so a closet is usually inside a wall, right?
Right, so a closet's a part of your house.
It's not furniture.
Right, so an armoire is the same as a closet, but it's not in the house, like in the walls.
It's outside.
It's a piece of furniture.
It's a big box.
Yeah, I could pick it up and move it.
Yes, so an armoire is a tall place to keep clothing.
Usually you hang your clothes.
You hang your shirts and your dresses and your coats.
And moving on, we have a dresser.
Now this seems pretty straightforward.
To get dressed, you have a dresser.
Yeah, it makes a lot of sense, but there is a big difference here between an armoire and
a dresser.
A dresser is usually drawers.
So you keep your sweaters, your shirts, your socks, your underwear in a dresser.
Okay, so an armoire, as you said, usually you hang your shirts or your pants.
It's for hanging stuff only.
A dresser is you have different drawers where you can put your socks, your boxer shorts,
and any other things that you keep.
So two very handy words, and that's what makes the difference between a closet.
So many people say, oh, it's just a closet.
Well, a closet's different.
No, a closet is actually part of your house.
It's a part of the wall.
Maybe it has a door.
Yeah, there's a big difference there.
So moving on, we have a nightstand that's also usually in the bedroom.
So I always wondered, why is it called a nightstand and not a daystand?
Well, a nightstand, it makes sense.
It usually has a lamp on it, a light on it.
And so when you're in bed and you want to read, you have a nightstand next to you to
put your lamp so you can turn the lamp on.
Usually I also keep my books here.
So when I'm reading, I put my books down, then I go to sleep.
Some people also keep their glasses and their alarm clock on a nightstand.
It's a small table that stands next to your bed.
And our last word for language takeaway part one, we have a coffee table.
So with the coffee table, Marco, we're moving back into the living room.
And in the living room, you have a sofa, you have some chairs.
You need a table, but you don't want a big table.
You want a small table or a very short table.
This is a coffee table.
It's called a coffee table.
I guess because if you're having coffee in the living room, this is where you put the
coffee.
And we even have something called coffee table books.
These are big, beautiful books, hardback books that have many pictures that you put on your
coffee table to look nice.
It's not for you to actually read all the time.
Well, I read them, but it's more important to use these books to look nice.
This is interesting though, because in many other countries, they're not really called
a coffee table.
A direct translation wouldn't really help you in many cases.
I think in Chinese, it's called a tea table, not a coffee table.
It makes sense.
I know in Spanish, it's just called a center table.
So this is basically the low table you have in your living room next to your sofa, in
front of your sofa actually, so you can have tea or coffee and read books.
Or put your feet up while you're watching TV.
Not in my house when I was a kid.
Why don't we go back, listen to the dialogue again, and we'll be returning a little bit
with more vocab.
Just get it.
Pick me up in about an hour because I think I'll also get a beanbag and a dining set.
So now, let's take a look at Language Takeaway Part 2.
Coming up, we have one of my favorite phrases in the English language.
I don't know why I like it so much, but it is a great name for a piece of furniture.
A loveseat.
Loveseat.
It sounds very romantic.
Well, think about a sofa.
A sofa can be very large.
You can have four or five people on a sofa.
But a loveseat is a small sofa for two people.
So that's what makes the difference, right?
It's a sofa, but only two people can sit on this.
So a sofa, it's not a loveseat.
And what about if it's one, because usually sofa sets, you have a loveseat, a big one,
and you have one, sometimes an individual one.
Do you just call that a chair?
A chair.
We'll come to it in a minute.
There's a special kind of chair that it might be, but we're not quite there yet.
First, we have another kind of chair, which is very special and reminds me a lot of the
1970s.
We have a bean bag, and this is actually a piece of furniture that's still very popular
in many places.
And it's called a bean bag because it's a huge bag that is filled with beans.
Beans or something soft.
And when you sit on it, it looks like a ball, but when you sit on it, it can change shape.
It molds to what shape you are.
And usually they're very light.
A lot of times, I hate to say it, a lot of times bachelors' apartments have these.
It's actually a very cheap piece of furniture, and it's comfortable.
Sometimes if you're watching TV, you can just sit on your bean bag and watch TV.
Even I know some people may fall asleep on a bean bag as guests.
I've never slept on, well, maybe once, but I don't remember sleeping on a bean bag.
I imagine it's quite uncomfortable.
Yeah, for your back.
But moving on after a bean bag, which is a good informal piece of furniture, we have
a dining set, which is a lot nicer.
Okay, dining set.
So a dining set has many pieces.
You have a dining room table.
And you have chairs.
So a set is basically a collection of a table and chairs together.
Sometimes I think it will also include some type of piece of furniture that's next to
the dining table where you can keep your plates and you can keep your teacups and all that.
What's that called?
That's called a buffet.
And that's basically, it's like a dresser for your dining room.
It's got like drawers and stuff for your plates, your cups, like you said, and it's next to
the dining room table.
But the dining room set or the dining set is for the dining room.
It's the table where you eat dinner.
And now moving on to that special chair that I am a big fan of.
It's very comfortable to sit on and it's called a recliner.
So we have a word here, recline.
It means to lie back, to put your head back, to get comfortable.
So a recliner is a chair that you can change the shape of to make you lie down flat.
So when you sit down, you're sitting, but what if you want to lie down in a chair?
This chair lets you do that.
And it also, from the bottom part where your feet are, a little thing pops up so you can
rest your feet on top of this little extension of the chair.
Okay, so it has a built-in footrest.
Footrest, exactly.
So it's very comfortable.
It's very popular.
If you ever watch the series Friends, they have the recliners.
It's very comfortable to watch sports, for example.
You have your beer.
Joey has his recliner.
And remember when Joey and Chandler lived together, they have the two recliners in front
of the TV.
Those chairs are recliners and they're very, very popular.
Actually I think in the United States, they're very commonly known by the brand, Lazy Boy.
There's a brand.
It's not a kind of furniture, but it's the name of the brand.
It's Lazy Boy and they're very, very famous.
You're right, Marco, for their reclining chairs.
So Lazy Boys, you may hear it, but the real word for it is called a recliner.
So a lot of interesting pieces of furniture there.
I think our house is going to look amazing.
So why don't we go back and listen to the dialogue one last time.
So talking about furniture, it's very interesting.
How do you take it home?
In this case, they were transporting it themselves.
The guy said, I'm going to go home and drop off this nightstand, coffee table, and loveseat.
So to drop off.
Okay, this is a great verb.
To drop off.
It's a verbal phrase.
So the preposition there is off, not on.
So I could say, for example, Marco, I'm just going to drop off my bag at home and then
I'll meet you guys for dinner.
That means I'm going to go to my house and put down my bag and then I'll leave.
So to drop off is basically to go somewhere so you can put something in that place.
But it doesn't mean that you're going to go to that place and stay there.
So if I say, I'm going to drop off the kids at school, that means I'm going to take the
kids and leave them at school and then go away.
It doesn't mean you're going to school yourself.
So can you drop off the laundry at the dry cleaners, please?
So drop off the laundry to the dry cleaners, leave it there and then go somewhere else.
So what happens at three o'clock when the kids are still at school?
Now we use the opposite verbal phrase and that is to pick up.
Okay, drop off, pick up.
So you go pick up the kids.
You go pick up the laundry.
So this isn't just about picking something up from a table or the ground.
You can actually use your car to pick something up.
You go and retrieve it.
So I'm going to the post office to pick up my package.
So phrases that you're going to have to use if you're talking about furniture, if you're
talking about buying something.
And while we're on the topic, I know that one of the most popular places to buy furniture
is Ikea.
Are you a big fan of Ikea?
I like Ikea and I love what they've done for people who don't want to spend too much money
on furniture.
Furniture is expensive.
Furniture is very expensive.
You can spend $5,000 on a sofa.
And so Ikea is a wonderful brand and I think a wonderful company because it makes good-looking
furniture affordable.
And it's because you put it together yourself, right?
A lot of things you have to assemble or put together by yourself.
So you buy it in a box and then you make it.
It's a little bit frustrating sometimes, but for people like me, and I'm sure people like
you, part of the fun is putting stuff together.
Yeah, because you kind of feel like you kind of built it, but you really didn't.
So it kind of gives you that false sense of accomplishment.
It's like I'm in the 19th century and I can make my own furniture.
And apart from having great furniture, I understand that they have amazing meatballs.
Well, I'm a Swedish.
I never get to eat Swedish meatballs.
And here in China, they do have some of the better meatballs around.
So I would recommend if you haven't tried them, try them.
They're pretty good.
Yeah, go to IKEA.
Go to IKEA, have some dinner.
Let me know.
Do you like IKEA and do you love their meatballs?
Go to our website.
My name is Katrin and today we're talking all about cars in this intermediate level
We have a little bit of problems with our car and we're going to talk about some possible
solutions to these car problems we have.
So why don't we just listen to the dialogue today.
We have no words on vocabulary preview so let's jump right into the dialogue and listen
Car trouble center, how may I help you?
My car won't start.
Stupid old car.
Before you kick your car, let's go through some possible problems.
First of all, can you turn the key in the ignition?
I'm here with my friend and he thinks it may be the spark plug or the starter motor.
Those are possible problems, but tell me, when you turn the key, do you hear the starter
motor crank?
It sounds like it usually does when I start the car, but nothing else happens.
The engine won't start.
Should I maybe press the accelerator?
If you step on the accelerator pedal, you can flood the carburetor and your car will
never start.
So what do you think it is?
I know this may seem like a silly question, but does your car have gasoline?
Um, yeah, right.
I got the car started.
Thanks for your help.
I told you to fill the tank.
Okay, so this dialogue reminds me a lot of a radio show in America called Car Talk.
And the hosts of the show, like Marco and I today, they talk about how to solve problems
and they ask you questions to find out what the problem is.
So it's a really helpful show, but let's take a look at some of the phrases and words that
you heard so we can understand what exactly is going on here.
All right, so today on Language Takeaway, we have five words and they're all very specific
to the car.
So why don't we start with the first word.
It's a noun and we are talking about the ignition.
Ignition.
The ignition is a part of the first step to starting a car.
Basically under the wheel of the car, the steering wheel, there is usually a silver
hole where you can put the key in.
This is the ignition.
It starts the car.
So you put the key in the ignition and you can start the car.
To start the car means to turn it on, to get it going.
And so ignition is the first step.
Starting the ignition.
Okay, so moving on to our next word.
We have a word that's formed by two different parts.
A spark plug.
Spark plug.
So a spark plug is an electrical object.
Basically this has to do with electricity and the way that the car gets energy.
So it's called a spark plug because it creates a spark, which is a brief burst of current.
So this basically creates a small spark of electricity and this makes the gasoline ignite.
So that's what makes the car go.
So energy is taken from the battery to start a small fire basically, which then starts
the engine.
It's a very small but very important part of a car.
And moving on, we have the starter motor.
Okay, to be very honest with you, I'm not a car person, so I'm not sure what the starter
motor is.
So explain this to us, Marco.
So basically your car runs on gasoline.
So you put your key into the ignition and you turn it.
This in turn sends energy to this little motor called the starter motor.
And that basically gets the car going by means of an electrical current before the gasoline
ignites.
So it's like a little electrical motor that makes the spark plug ignite and causes some
of the mechanical parts like the pistons move within the car and then it turns on.
So again, this is all about the beginning of when we turn the key in the ignition, what
happens?
This is a starter motor.
So once we've turned the car on, we've turned the key in the ignition, we have to worry
about giving the car gas.
So we can control gas with the accelerator pedal.
So by saying you want to give the car gas is you want to give it more energy, more power
or less energy, right?
So if I want to go very fast, I push my foot down on the accelerator and the further down
it goes, the faster I move.
So that's the accelerator.
Now the opposite of making the car go would make the car stop and those are called?
So on the left we have a brake pedal and on the right we have an accelerator pedal.
And talking about acceleration and gas, we have a very specific mechanical object and
that's called a carburetor.
Again, carburetor.
I know that this is under the hood of my car, but I'm not sure what it does.
So it's not very common to have a carburetor anymore in new cars, but basically it's a
small device that controls the flow of gasoline from the gas tank to the engine.
And basically what it does, it creates, it makes the gasoline into a type of a very thin
mist and that's what cause, and that way, and that way the gasoline can ignite easier.
So the further down you push your foot on the accelerator, the wider the little gap
or the hole will open on the carburetor and that way your car will go faster.
So that's all we've got for language takeaway today, but don't go anywhere.
We'll be back in a second with Fluency Builder.
Car trouble center.
So now why don't we take a look at four key phrases that we have for you on Fluency Builder.
Okay, this first phrase.
So you heard the phrase at the beginning, car trouble center, but car trouble center,
that's maybe the name of a fake company that we use.
But the phrase car trouble is very, very common.
So if you say I'm having car trouble or I had some car trouble, what does that mean?
That means my car broke.
So you don't say my car broke.
This is one thing that can't break because normally you say I'm having trouble or I'm
having car trouble because a part of my car is not working.
So instead of saying I'm having problems with my car or my car broke, you just say I had
car trouble or I'm having car trouble.
So this is a really good excuse for coming to work late.
You can say, oh, I'm so sorry.
I was having car trouble this morning.
So any type of problems with your car can be considered car trouble.
Flat tire, no battery, etc.
Now moving on, we have a very interesting verb here.
We heard when the guy was talking about the starter motor, he said, do you hear the starter
Okay, to crank.
So this is a very interesting verb.
It's a movement.
So when something turns around in a circle, maybe you think of a metal wheel.
That's a crank.
So sometimes we talk about those old cars, you know, 1910s, 1920s, the first Ford cars,
you had to crank them in the front.
You had to actually turn with your hand a wheel to make the car start.
So this is a crank.
You can hear this in your car.
Maybe if your car doesn't have gasoline, you hear the tick, tick, tick, tick, that's
the starter motor cranking.
So it's going around in circles, trying to create energy.
And now when the guy was talking about the accelerator and he was talking about the carburetor,
he said, no, don't step on that pedal because you can flood the carburetor.
So to flood.
To flood.
Maybe you've heard the word flood before as a noun, but this means to fill something with
liquid, with gasoline, with water, with milk.
So to flood something is to fill it up with a liquid.
So you can flood a dam, for example, right?
Or in this case, you can flood a carburetor, which means it won't work because it's all
wet.
And the last phrase that we have very handy when you're talking about cars is to fill
the tank.
This is always a problem at my house because I hate to fill the tank.
Whenever my car's in the driveway and someone in my family asks if they can borrow it, I
say, yeah, sure.
And then obviously an hour later, they come back and say, why don't you ever fill the
tank?
It's empty.
You have no gas.
I say, well, I hate to fill the car with gas.
And so I always have an empty tank.
So I never fill the tank.
So that's what it means to fill the tank is to have it full of gasoline.
To put gasoline into your gasoline tank.
So we're going to go back and listen to the dialogue for the last time.
And we'll be back to talk a little bit more.
Those are possible problems.
But tell me, when you turn the key, do you hear the starter motor crank?
So talking about cars and car trouble, I understand, for example, in some countries, when you're
getting a driver's license, you're forced or obliged to learn a little bit of car mechanics.
You have to learn about the engine or how to change your tire and basic things like
In America, you don't have to know how to fix your car.
You have to know how to pay someone to fix your car.
But basically, we only learn the rules of the road.
So the signs and the basic rules.
But I think it would be very helpful to know how to fix a tire or how to change the oil
in your car.
I mean, is this a requirement in Ecuador?
When you're getting your driver's permit, your driver's license, you have to take a
course which shows you the mechanics of the car, first aid course, and also basic road
rules and all that stuff.
But basically, because it can be something very simple, like for example, they show you
where the battery is, where you can check the oil and basic things like this.
So maybe the little cable from the battery just came loose and that's why your car won't
start.
So instead of you waiting for two hours until somebody comes and picks you up or a tow truck,
you can just check very briefly basic things that can maybe go wrong in your car and you
can just go on your way.
I had my dad for that.
My dad said, I'm not going to have a little girl who doesn't know how to change a tire
or who doesn't know how to check the oil level.
But not everybody has a parent who will teach them.
And it's very handy because, for example, you get a flat tire and sometimes cars can
be a little bit tricky.
The wheel nuts are sometimes covered by a plastic cover so you don't know how to take
it off.
There's a special tool for that.
Or the jack.
Sometimes the jack is not the normal one that you have to pump up and down.
It's a little one that you have to turn a lever and you have to do this.
So it's very, very useful to know these things.
I'm curious to know if our listeners out there have experience with cars and car mechanics
and if you have this rule, like Marco says they have in Ecuador, about learning about
cars before you actually get your driver's license.
And remember, congrats to all of our listeners because you are one more person on this Sherwood
My name is Catherine and today's lesson is an advanced level lesson.
That means we'll be speaking using our normal English tone of voice and using some very,
very difficult vocabulary and phrases.
So this is really good practice for all of you out there.
We're going to change a little bit the dynamic of how it works.
We're not going to look specifically at language takeaway or fluency builder.
We're going to talk about the topic.
We are going to pick out a couple of different words and phrases that are used in the dialogue,
but we're mainly going to talk, just have a conversation and you can just listen and
study a little bit of what we're saying.
So what is the topic today, Marco?
Well today we're going to talk about the environment, specifically about our carbon footprint.
Okay, that is the title of today's lesson.
I encourage all of you to listen to the context of that phrase and we'll be back in a moment
to talk about what it and some of these other phrases mean.
So what's your guys' take on all this global warming hysteria in the media?
It's pretty serious, man.
There have been tons of scientific studies and the scientific community says that the
earth is heating up.
We need to make some drastic changes to our lifestyle if we want to preserve our planet.
It sounds like a bunch of mumble jumble if you ask me.
The earth will save itself.
It survived the worst disasters in the past.
I mean, honestly, we live in the boonies.
There's no way anyone here is ever going to walk or bike to work, especially in the winter.
And we have no bus system.
My house is 40 years old and it would take a lot of money to get it refitted to be green
and energy efficient.
Well, I don't really know if I believe in global warming either or whether or not it
was our doing or a natural change the earth is going through.
But you have to admit that we're living pretty irresponsibly here in the West.
I think the issue at hand is sustainability.
We've only got this one earth we can live on and our resources are quickly disappearing
because of our own carelessness and our inability to think of anyone but ourselves and anything
but the present.
So like I was saying, we need to change the way we live.
We need to reduce our carbon footprint.
But it doesn't have to be that drastic.
Hybrid vehicles and solar panels are too expensive to be feasible right now.
And we don't have to be hippies living off the land and buying everything organic either.
Though it helps.
I carpool to work every day with some buddies of mine.
I have a rain barrel outside my house I use to water my plants and my lawn in the summer.
And I make sure I always bring reusable bags with me when I get my groceries.
And we just started using biodegradable plastic made from corn oil for takeout orders at my
family's restaurant.
Remember the three R's?
Reduce, reuse, recycle.
It's just small, simple changes.
Like buying energy-saving light bulbs.
Starting a compost bin.
Recycling bottles and papers.
Using reusable water bottles.
Stop using disposable cups and cutlery.
Like the ones we're drinking out of?
So as you probably guessed, carbon footprint, it's pretty easy.
You're talking about a footprint is the evidence you leave if you're walking on sand, for example.
And if we talk about carbon, we're talking about the element, right?
Carbon.
So carbon is something that is in everything, basically.
It's organic.
It can also, in the case of a carbon footprint, mean the amount of maybe waste or damage that
we do to the earth or to the environment.
So for example, you're driving your car.
We all know that the gas that is emitted from the exhaust pipe is CO2, right?
And that contains carbon.
So that's a way of seeing that you're leaving a footprint of carbon.
You are damaging the atmosphere a little bit by driving your car.
So in talking about a carbon footprint, we talk about having a low carbon footprint,
which is good, or a very high carbon footprint, which is bad.
So there were a lot of interesting things coming up in the dialogue.
One of the first things was...
Well, the first thing that they're talking about in this dialogue is they're having kind
of an argument about whether or not global warming and global climate change really exists.
Yeah, this is a very interesting part because some people say, well, global warming is happening,
global warming is real.
And other people say, well, it's not real.
It's not really a problem.
This is just a phase that the earth will go through and like everything, it'll disappear.
Well, I agree with people who say that the earth goes through phases because sometimes
there are centuries that are hotter and sometimes there are centuries that are colder.
But I think it's undeniable that there has been a large and immediate global climate
change in the last maybe 20 years.
Yeah, we're definitely speeding up maybe that cycle, right?
And I think that's great evidence of this and terrible evidence of this is the three
earthquakes, massive earthquakes that have happened in the last couple of months.
I think that earthquakes like last year and like this year are really, really important
reminders that we do as humans influence the way that the world responds to us.
I think I always see it as the earth kind of just shaking its back, kind of saying,
get off me.
That itches.
That's the way I see earthquakes sometimes.
But when they were talking about, well, is it real?
Is it not?
They use a really interesting phrase and says, it sounds like a bunch of mumbo jumbo.
Mumbo jumbo.
So this is a way to say that sounds like a bunch of garbage or it sounds like a bunch
of gibberish.
It sounds like a bunch of people are talking about something that doesn't really exist.
So mumbo jumbo is basically something that's not really real or true.
I think don't you also, can you use it as somebody that's saying something you don't
really understand?
So if maybe I'm talking to you about something that's very academic and very scholarly, you
say, eh, sounds like a bunch of mumbo jumbo to me.
So that's what the person said.
Ah, you know, the environmental problems are a bunch of mumbo jumbo.
But it was really interesting because they were like, well, we have to save the earth
and well, and then there was actually a phrase here that was really kind of hard for me to
understand when the person said, I mean, honestly, we live in the boonies.
Boonies.
So what does it mean by living in the boonies?
This is a very common word to hear in spoken English, especially with young people.
Boonies means we live far away from civilization.
We live far away from cities.
We live far away from everything.
So maybe these people live in the countryside or in a small village and they don't feel
like they're affected by what people in the big cities do.
So if you say, oh, I live in the boonies, you're just saying, I live really far, really
far away.
So this is a very common American word.
I think you can also say boondocks, which is like that movie Boondock Saints.
But boondocks and boonies means very far away.
So I could say, Marco, I'm not going to drive out to your house for a party.
You live in the boonies.
Do you have any other ways that you can say that you live really far away?
You live in Egypt.
You live in Egypt, which for us in America is obviously very, very far away.
Sometimes we say, oh, the youngs, exactly.
People in New Zealand say that.
I've also heard people say, oh, you live where the wind turns around.
I like that one.
It's like you live so far.
Oh God, you live where the wind turns around.
The end of the earth.
So, well, there are a lot of different ways of saying that.
So they were talking about different aspects of the environment, like that we heard the
word green or energy efficient.
So basically what they're doing is they're talking about some of the things they've heard
in the media, maybe, or on TV about what people are supposed to be doing.
These are very abstract.
That means these are very kind of big terms.
Go green or be more energy efficient.
I've heard this, like, for example, when people say, oh, you have to be more green or go green.
That means more friendly towards the ecosystem, right?
So this is a very general suggestion and we can talk about specifics in a minute, but
this is a very general suggestion for thinking about the environment and doing things to
help it.
And so go green or be green is a way to be more environmentally friendly.
We also have using energy efficient computers or light bulbs or TVs.
The third thing that they talk about, and this is something that comes up a lot, is
sustainability.
Yeah, that's a big word that a lot of people like to use in this type of topic, sustainability.
So sustainability comes from the word to sustain.
That means to hold out over time or to continue.
So you think about something, maybe sustainability is, I think, in many cases about doing or
having habits, doing things that you can continue to do for a long time.
For example, driving a big SUV to work every day is not keeping in mind sustainability
because one day there will be no oil.
So then what do we do?
So that's not a sustainable action.
Sustainable actions mean that we have less negative impact on the world.
So basically what you're trying to do is to sustain, which means to hold, to withstand
these habits, for example.
So when you talk about a sustainable ecosystem, it means that it has everything it needs and
it can continue to work for a very, very long time.
So you can also talk about sustainable development, which we talk about in aid and giving aid
to other countries.
So sustainable development is trying to help other countries or other people in ways that
they can continue to do for a long time.
It's also very popular with tourism.
They talk about sustainable tourism.
That means thinking about the environment and having tourism that can last forever,
not tourism that will destroy the environment because it's very harmful.
And as you say, it's used in a wide range of cases, sustainable development, sustainable
projects, sustainable tourism.
There are a lot of different ways that people use this, but it's basically the same thing.
It's in essence, it refers to that.
Keeping something going over time.
But I think the big question here is if you want to go green, if you want to be environmentally
friendly, what do you do?
Because it's not about big ideas.
It's about specifics.
It's about changing your everyday actions.
So these guys had a couple of ideas.
They came up with something like, for example, hybrid vehicles, which is a big thing now.
Basically hybrid means two, right?
It's a combination of two or more.
So, you know the Sphinx in Egypt?
That's a hybrid.
Between a man and a lion.
So a hybrid vehicle basically uses gasoline, but also electricity.
So they're actually very efficient because-
And they're quiet.
They're quiet.
And usually where you use up most of your gasoline is in traffic.
Because your car is on, you're accelerating, you're braking, you're accelerating, you're
braking.
So in this case, I think hybrid vehicles run on the electric engine until they hit, I think
it's 30 miles per hour.
And once you surpass that, then it switches to the gas engine, which obviously if you
have a constant high speed, it's more efficient, the combustion of the gasoline.
So a good example of a hybrid vehicle is the Toyota Prius.
I think it was like the first one commercially available.
But now they have all kinds and they're actually trying to make entirely electric cars.
So lots of things to watch out for there.
But they also talked about something for the house, right?
So if you want to not just have a nice car that is environmentally friendly, but also
to do things with your house, what can you put on your roof?
I think we've seen a lot of these.
These are called solar panels.
Solar has to do with the sun.
So solar power, solar panel, that means energy that comes from the sun.
So the sun.
And a panel is like a pad or like some kind of device that can take the energy from the
sun.
It's really, really good.
Basically, in some places you have anywhere between eight to 12 hours of sunlight.
So the whole day, these panels are absorbing energy.
You can store them maybe in batteries and then just use them later.
So basically you don't really need to use electricity that comes from coal or from nuclear
power plants because you want to turn on a light.
It doesn't really use up a lot of electricity.
And there's no waste.
It's all clean.
So my question for you, does Ecuador have a lot of solar panels everywhere?
Because you guys have so much sunlight down there.
We don't really have a lot of them.
It's not a big commercial thing yet, but there are a lot of projects going around to help
implement these things a lot better.
For example, taking these technologies to the countryside where people don't have access
to electricity by means of cables.
So they're implementing that there, getting them to use it.
But it's still expensive.
That's the problem with solar panels is that, of course, it's an energy efficient way of
going.
It'll save you money in the long run, but up front, you've got to spend a lot of money.
Well, here's a good way to use sustaining.
If someone in the countryside has solar panels in their house, it's a self-sustaining way
to produce energy.
So you can spend on another place or a person.
Actually, this is a very popular thing in many developed countries.
I remember when I was living in Chile, big buildings were being marketed as energy efficient
and green by showing that they can be self-sustaining.
So basically, they would have solar panels on the roof.
They would collect sunlight all day, and then they had big batteries that would store this
energy and then you can use it.
They were more efficient into keeping heat or keeping the cold.
And also, what we saw in the vocab, they also had rain barrels.
So basically, collecting water from the rain, and then they can use this water, obviously,
through a filtering system in order to be able to drink it or to wash your clothes and
stuff.
But basically, they would say that it could reduce your carbon footprint by more than
50% and also the amount of money you would spend because you wouldn't spend so much money
on water, you wouldn't spend so much money on electricity or gas and things like this.
Well, one of the biggest concerns as far as environmentalism is water, where water will
come from in 50 years because there is a limited amount of fresh water in the world.
And if we can reuse rainwater and collect it, I think it's brilliant.
So a barrel basically is like a big container, circular.
It's like a circle and it stands up on the ground or on a roof.
And it's brilliant because if you have a rain barrel that collects all this rain, and you
have solar panels, basically, you don't need gas or electricity to take a warm shower.
You just have the solar panels that can heat up the rain barrel water and there you have
a warm shower.
It sounds so nice.
You have sun-kissed warmth and you have fresh rainwater.
But the whole water issue is a very popular topic.
I recommend that any of our listeners read.
There's a very interesting article that talks about don't worry about petroleum running
out in 50 years.
We're probably going to run out of our water before that.
And they project droughts and huge famine in places like India, like in the Middle East,
even in places of China.
Well, not to scare anyone.
But yeah, it's interesting reading though.
Yeah, it's really good.
Very serious stuff.
Well, the last thing that I think we should talk about before we listen to today's audio
file again is the compost bin.
Now, this is maybe something that's hard to understand for someone who's never seen one
But basically, compost is, well, the verb is compost, to compost, but it's also a noun.
But a lot of people, they don't want to throw away their food and their organic material,
things like flowers and food and biodegradable things.
They actually reuse them.
They have a space in the backyard of the house where they throw away all the old food.
Nothing plastic, nothing non-biodegradable.
And that over time turns into fertilizer or mulch for their gardens.
So basically, you're putting it back into the earth.
No, this is a very good option.
And I remember seeing that even in Brazil, they have huge compost bins or compost places
that they fill up with this garbage.
And obviously, things that decompose start to emit methane gas.
So they've found a way to harness this gas, transport it through tubes, and start using
So actually having gas stoves with this methane gas.
That's brilliant.
So two uses, fertilizer and methane gas.
So there are a lot of options there to go green, to do your part to help the earth.
So let's listen again to the dialogue that we had today.
Hopefully we've cleared up some of the things that were confusing for you, and we'll be
back in just a moment.
There have been tons of scientific studies, and the scientific community says that the
It's survived the worst disasters in the past.
My house is 40 years old, and it would take a lot of money to get it refitted to be green
Well, I don't really know if I believe in global warming either, or whether or not it
We've only got this one earth we can live on, and our resources are quickly disappearing
And we don't have to be hippies living off the land and buying everything organic either,
though it helps.
So it's a very interesting topic, very debatable.
We have Earth Day coming up, I think.
You have to turn off your lights for an hour.
Earth Hour, Earth Day.
So remember, reduce, reuse, recycle.
The three R's.
Think about the way that you use things and try and reuse them if you can.
It's a very good topic.
We want to know what you think about it.
And also if you have any suggestions or any comments about future advanced lessons, why
don't you tell us?
Come to EnglishPod.com and we'll see everyone there.
Britannica Life
My name is Catherine and today we have a very descriptive lesson for you.
We have an elementary lesson for everyone and we are going to talk about facial hair.
Okay, so Marco, you don't have any facial hair.
Well, I like to shave every other day.
But yeah, that's what facial hair is.
It's hair that you have on your face.
Okay, so we're at the police station in this dialogue.
Let's take a listen and find out why.
Okay, Sally, we have an artist here to help us.
We'll ask you questions about the bank robber you saw and Paul will draw a picture.
Well, he had brown hair, long hair and he had some facial hair.
It was brown too.
Okay, the facial hair, was it a beard or a mustache?
His mustache was very short and thin, just on the top of his lip.
Ah-ha.
Like this?
Yes, that's the mustache.
But the beard isn't right.
I mean, it didn't cover his whole face.
I think it was just on his chin.
A goatee?
Was it like Paul's?
Uh, yes, that's it.
He had a goatee.
Now, what about sideburns?
Did he have sideburns?
They were long and thick, like yours.
There.
Was this the man you saw?
Yes, that's him.
It looks a lot like you.
Why, yes, he does.
Paul, where were you on Friday afternoon?
That's ridiculous.
It wasn't me.
I didn't do anything.
I was over there doing the thing, the best man to do.
So, as you can see, the woman is describing a bank robber.
And one of the ways that she's describing him is by the facial hair that he had.
So there are a lot of very interesting words and phrases here.
Why don't we take a look at some of them in Language Takeaway.
Okay so in Language Takeaway today we have some really good description words and nouns,
things that people have on their face, facial hair.
Because there's not just one kind of facial hair, there are many different kinds.
So our first one is, are we going to skip facial hair?
Our first one is mustache.
Okay, a mustache.
And this is, I think, one of the more popular forms of facial hair.
I think it's a style, right?
All these styles of facial hair.
And so a mustache is basically some hair on top of your lip.
It's above your lip.
And it's usually, it can be thin or thick.
It comes in different sizes, but this is not your whole face.
It's just above your lip.
Alright, so for example, a famous person or a famous mustache was Charlie Chaplin, right?
Charlie Chaplin had a mustache, just a little bit of hair above his lip.
But also Theodore Roosevelt had a very big bushy mustache.
Interesting fact, you might hear someone say stache instead of mustache.
This is a short way to say it.
So oh, he's growing a stache.
And also the spelling can be a little bit difficult to understand how you pronounce
it because it's M-U-S-T-A-C-H-E.
So there's no really S-H sound like shh, but you pronounce it mustache.
Mustache, yeah.
So that's one kind of facial hair, but there are many others.
The next one we've got for you is a beard.
A beard, okay.
This is a really good one.
A beard.
I think a beard keeps men warm.
I think a beard keeps a man warm in the winter.
This is the most hair.
So basically a beard, you have hair on your lip and also all over your face basically.
So a beard you have all over your face.
Right, your cheeks, your chin, and above your lip.
So a famous person with a beard?
Santa Claus.
Santa Claus has a very big beard.
Yeah, Santa Claus has a big beard.
Big white beard.
Okay, so that's a beard.
I think that's the easiest to have because you don't need to cut anything or shave anything.
Oh, you need to trim.
Yeah, you need to.
If you don't trim, it looks kind of bad.
Well, now moving on to our next style of facial hair, we have a goatee.
Okay, this might be confusing for some people because it's not a beard and it's not a mustache.
It's basically hair around your mouth, on your chin and your lip.
So I think Sean Connery has a very famous goatee.
And Brad Pitt right now has a really big goatee.
Yeah, a big goatee, lots of hair.
So as you say, it's around your mouth, so your lip and your chin.
That's right, a goatee.
Okay, so that's our third style of facial hair.
And now moving on to our last style, we have sideburns.
Okay, so think about the word here, sideburns.
Side.
They're on your side.
They're on the side.
So near the ears, there is usually some space where a man can grow some hair.
Not with a beard or necessarily a mustache though.
It can be just the hair on the jaw line, near the jaw, near the ears.
So I think this was a very famous style in the 60s and 70s.
You would have long sideburns all along your face.
Past your ear, right?
And the longer, maybe the...
The sexier you were.
The sexier, no.
Nowadays, it's not as popular, but you do see people who have sideburns.
I think nowadays, people have sideburns, but they're not as thick.
They're just thin little sideburns.
All right, so all of these are the different sorts and styles of facial hair.
Of course, there are a lot more.
I think while we were looking for this on the internet, we found a lot of other styles
that came up like mutton chops and things like this.
But these are probably the most popular ones.
And we're going to hear about the most.
Okay, so why don't we go back, listen to our dialogue again, and we'll be back with Fluency
We'll ask you questions about the bank robber you saw, and Paul will draw a picture.
Well, he had brown hair, long hair, and he had some facial hair.
Hmm, like this?
Yes, that's the mustache, but the beard isn't right.
Okay, now what about sideburns?
Um, yes, they were long and thick, like yours.
Alright, there.
Hmm, it looks a lot like you.
Hmm, why, yes he does.
I was over there doing the thing, the best man to do, to do.
Alright, so today in Fluency Builder, we are not really talking about phrases as much as
we're talking about adjectives.
So words you can use to describe facial hair.
Okay, so when the girl was describing facial hair, for example, she said, the mustache
was very short and thin.
Okay, a short and thin mustache.
So you think about it, you can have a very thick mustache, that's the opposite, that
means very hairy, very wide.
A thin mustache is like a line.
Okay, so for example, Charlie Chaplin, he had a short mustache, but it wasn't thin,
it was a little bit thick.
That's right, it was kind of wide.
But you think of, you know, when you see someone who's drawing a mustache on a sign at a restaurant
or in a newspaper, that's usually very thin, because they use a pen, it's very silly looking.
Right, so those are different adjectives to describe, not only a mustache.
So basically we can use these to describe any sort of hair.
For example, the hair on your head, you can say he's got short hair.
That's right, or I could say I have long hair.
Long hair.
Or Marco, I could say you have thick hair.
Thick.
So if you have an abundance of hair, that you would say it's thick.
You know, it's like if you put your hand in it, it feels like there's a lot that's very
thick hair.
Some people have thin hair, so they don't have a lot of hair.
And well, moving on to the parts of the face, we described it before as to where a mustache
is, where a goatee is, but let's take a closer look at that.
For example, a mustache is on your upper lip.
Right, so just above your lip, under your nose, that's where a mustache goes.
So that's the upper lip.
But if we're talking about a goatee, it's not just on your upper lip, it's also where?
On your chin.
Your chin.
So that's the very bottom point of your face.
So you have your chin, your upper lip, and also when we talked about, for example, the
sideburns, we talked about the jaw, but also it could be part of the cheek.
So every person has two cheeks, one on the left and one on the right, and those are a
very big part of your face on the sides of your nose.
Okay, so you have your chin, you have your cheeks, you have your upper lip.
I think that's pretty much the only places where you can grow a mustache.
Also on your neck.
Yeah, some people have it on their neck or on the back of, well, no, it's not better.
Some people also have it on their neck, yeah, that's right.
So a lot of different words to describe facial hair.
Why don't we go back, listen to the dialogue one last time, and we'll be back to talk some
Ah-ha, hmm, like this?
Alright, there, was this the man you saw?
Hmm, he looks a lot like you.
I was over there doing the thing with the best man.
Alright, so talking about facial hair, Catherine, do you like men that have facial hair?
Yeah, you like mustaches, beards, goatees?
Um, well it really depends.
I really like sideburns, but sometimes people don't do them correctly, so I don't like them.
But I like beards, and yeah, goatee, I like facial hair.
You like facial hair.
What is it about facial hair on men that you like?
Manly men.
I don't know, there's something, you know, kind of rough about it.
Rough, yeah.
Yeah, I don't like the very manicured, very carefully cut facial hair.
I kind of like it a little bit more on the rough side.
It's interesting because, it's interesting to see also facial hair, or long facial hair.
Like for example, the guys from ZZ Top.
You know, they have like really long beards.
I wonder how long it takes to grow something like this.
I'm sure we could find out on the internet, but yeah, no, they have competitions.
There's a world mustache competition, for example, and they have the world's longest
mustache.
So they measure his mustache, it's three or four meters or something.
Yeah, it can get really long.
Yeah, so I think your hair keeps growing.
It just depends on when you decide to cut it.
I think it's also a very cultural thing, right?
Some cultures are able to grow a lot of facial hair and like to do it.
Others really don't.
For example, you don't really see many Asians with facial hair, with goatees or mustaches.
I think you see more goatees than you see full beards, actually.
But yeah, definitely East Asia, it's not as common.
Although India, you see a lot a little bit more facial.
A lot of mustaches there.
So this is an interesting question.
Tell us how popular it is in your country or if you like men with facial hair or if
you're a guy, do you like to have a beard, a mustache or a goatee?
So come to our website, EnglishPod.com and we'll see everyone there.
Catch you later.
My name is Katrin and we've got an upper intermediate level lesson for you guys today.
This one is all about a crime scene.
So we are going to be at a crime scene.
We are with the police officers and we're going to take a look at some very, very interesting
and specific vocab to like police and a crime and all that.
So if you are a fan of the TV show CSI or you like some of these investigation police
work TV shows, this is a lesson for you.
So why don't we go and listen to the dialogue for the first time.
All right, Officer McGraw, give it to me straight.
What are we looking at here?
Detective McGee, I'm glad to see you.
We could sure use your expertise on this one.
It's a break in, but nothing seems to have been stolen.
We received a call from the Bear family at around 1030 this morning.
They'd gone out for a walk before breakfast and came home to this mess.
Broken chairs and porridge all over the place.
Apparently Mama Bear had made the porridge a little too hot, you see.
They were waiting for it to cool down.
Okay then, let's start examining the evidence.
Have the forensics team been in yet?
Yes sir.
We found some fingerprints on the bowls and are analyzing them back at the lab as we speak.
Hopefully they will be able to identify the burglar soon.
Aha!
What's this?
A strand of golden hair.
This is a very important piece of trace evidence, McGraw.
It tells me the suspect has long golden hair and very few men have long golden hair.
So our criminal could be a woman.
A woman?
Was she working alone?
Did she have an accomplice?
An accomplice?
No, McGraw.
She was definitely working alone.
See here, there are footprints in the porridge.
Here on the floor, small footprints.
This tells me that our suspect is small and could possibly be a child.
A child?
Surely not, sir.
We must follow the clues, McGraw.
The evidence doesn't lie.
Now let's reconstruct the crime.
The suspect came in, sat in each chair breaking the smallest one into little pieces.
Next, the porridge.
She obviously tried to eat it and because it was so hot, she dropped it on the floor,
making this mess.
These footprints seem to lead upstairs.
McGraw, did your officers clear the scene?
Well, there was no one down here.
Maybe we forgot to check upstairs.
Hey, what's with all the noise?
I'm trying to sleep up here.
There she is.
Get her.
So a lot of interesting phrases there.
They are obviously investigating a break-in.
Okay a break-in, yeah.
So someone broke into this family's house.
So they have to investigate the evidence and some of the things that were left behind.
So now why don't we take a look on Language Takeaway, some of the specific words they
Alright the first word that we have is forensics, the forensics team.
Forensics team.
So a forensics team is a team at a police department or police station that studies
the things that are left behind after a crime.
Alright so that team goes and collects the evidence.
So you could look at hair or fingerprints or footprints, things like that.
A forensics team is kind of like a team that puts together puzzle pieces trying to figure
out what the story was.
So as you said, the TV show CSI, the whole show revolves around, follows a group of forensic
scientists who go to crime scenes and look at blood and different pieces of evidence
that are left behind.
So one piece of evidence that a forensics team might look at is a fingerprint.
That's right, a fingerprint or in the dialogue we found fingerprints, the plural form.
Okay so for example, if you go to a police station because the police think that you
have committed a crime, the police will take your fingerprints.
That means they'll put your finger, that means they'll put your fingers into ink and they
will make you push your fingers onto a piece of paper to see what your fingers look like.
So our fingerprints have a unique pattern.
Everyone has different fingerprints.
There are no two fingerprints alike in the world, right?
Right, so it's kind of like a form of identification.
That's right, so that is your fingerprint.
So moving on, we talked about fingerprints and the scientists who are investigating the
crime scene and they are talking about a very important piece of trace evidence.
Okay well let's look first at the second word there.
We've got the word evidence.
So evidence is something that is usually physical like a piece of clothing or hair that can
be used against someone when we're trying to prove that they have committed a crime.
Right, so for example a weapon or fingerprints, all that is evidence.
Okay so Marco, what's the difference between evidence and trace evidence?
Well as you notice you have the specific word there, trace.
And to trace means to follow or to connect, right?
So what you're doing here is you're taking this evidence to follow or connect the person
that committed the crime.
So for example, fingerprints lets you know who committed the crime.
Okay, or maybe if you have blood you can find out who did this crime.
But what about like a broken window?
Well that's just evidence.
It just lets you know how the crime was committed, maybe how they got into the house.
But not who did it.
Okay, so trace evidence helps you connect the crime to the person who committed the
crime.
And well moving on, we found that very important piece of trace evidence which was a piece
of or a strand of golden hair and the police officer said, well this tells me that the
suspect has long golden hair.
So a suspect.
Okay this word, it looks exactly the same as the word to suspect.
But be careful because we say these two words in different ways.
So to suspect, that's a verb.
So I suspect Marco did it.
So that means I think or I imagine.
Right, whereas a suspect, a noun, a suspect is a person.
So the person who we think or the person who the police think committed a crime.
So for example, we're talking about some trace evidence like long blonde hair.
That means the suspect is probably a woman and is probably blonde.
And it's interesting that you use the verb to suspect and a suspect all because you're
not sure yet.
So this person may have committed the crime or may not.
So we have to wait until the trial.
We have to wait until we prove this person is guilty before we can say that they actually
committed the crime.
And well, you have a suspect and usually you also have somebody who is an accomplice to
the crime or to the suspect.
So a suspect, as we said, is a person.
So is an accomplice.
So accomplice is a suspect's helper.
So basically if you're robbing a bank and I wait outside in the car, right, while you're
robbing the bank, then I am an accomplice.
And under most laws, you could be sentenced to jail.
So the accomplice usually doesn't commit the crime, right?
You robbed the bank, but I just waited outside in the car to drive you out.
So I didn't rob the bank.
But sometimes accomplices do also have guns and shoot people or knives.
So an accomplice is basically just the helper of the criminal, but they can get in trouble
So basically it's a person that helps out and knows about the crime, but didn't tell
the police about it.
That's a really important aspect.
So a lot of interesting words there all related to crimes.
Why don't we move on now to a couple of different phrases that we have prepared for you on Fluency
I like this.
This first phrase, it's a phrase you might hear a lot actually in police shows.
Give it to me straight.
Actually, also you can use it when you're just talking to someone and they're like hesitant,
Like, I don't know how to tell you this, but...
I'm not so sure.
I don't think you're going to like what I have to say.
So I can just say, okay, come on, just give it to me straight.
I don't like your shirt.
It's a nice shirt.
But what you're basically asking for is the person to say, be honest with me.
Straight can mean both of those things, honest or straightforward or quick.
You don't want someone to go around and around and say lots of different things.
So I guess, yeah, that does make sense.
Give it to me straight maybe comes from straightforward.
So to be straightforward is to not hesitate to just say something directly and honestly.
So moving on to our next phrase, McGraw is talking about the bulls and he said, well,
they are analyzing them back at the lab as we speak.
As we speak.
So this is actually a phrase that refers to time.
So in this instance, what he's basically saying is right now.
They're being analyzed right now or in this moment.
So it's a way of indicating that something is happening at this very moment.
So I could say, did you know that the president is giving a speech as we speak?
So that means the president is talking right now.
Now, moving on to our third phrase, Detective McGee was talking about reconstructing the
He said, let's reconstruct the crime.
So I don't know if any of you watch these crime TV shows like Dexter or CSI.
This is my favorite part because they tell you exactly what they believe happened.
So to reconstruct means to build again or to recreate, to create again.
So basically they start at the beginning and they pretend to follow what happened during
the crime.
So that's basically the verb to reconstruct, to rebuild, recreate.
Reconstruct the crime.
So our last phrase is again, a very typical police phrase.
We hear this a lot when there's been a crime or on TV when they're talking about the scene
of the crime, that means the place where the crime happened.
And the police say we need to clear the scene or did the officers clear the scene?
So to clear means to empty out.
But they're not talking about emptying out the evidence or removing everything from the
They're just saying to remove people, right?
Or obstructions.
So a police officer would want to make all the people go away.
Well, because you don't want people stepping on the evidence or maybe putting their fingerprints
all over the place.
So it's very important that the officers, the police officers clear the scene so that
they can start their investigation.
A lot of interesting phrases there.
I think we should go back.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue for the last time and we'll come back and talk a little
bit more this.
And we'll come back and talk a little bit more about this really interesting topic.
Detective McGee, glad to see you.
Okay, then let's start examining the evidence.
They found some fingerprints on the bowls and are analyzing them back at the lab as
we speak.
It tells me the suspect has long golden hair, and very few men have long golden hair.
See, here there are footprints in the porridge.
This tells me that our suspect is small, and could possibly be a child.
Next, the porridge, she obviously tried to eat it, and because it was so hot she dropped
it on the floor, making this mess.
There she is!
Get her!
So you mentioned a couple of different shows, such as Dexter and CSI.
Do you watch any of these shows?
I'm a big fan of Dexter.
And Dexter, as you know, works at a police station in Miami.
His character is in forensics.
He analyzes blood.
Right, he's like a blood expert.
But it's interesting because he is actually, he commits crimes himself.
So he uses his knowledge to help him to not get caught.
Right, so he's both a criminal and he's a police officer.
But he's kind of like a superhero criminal, right?
Because he doesn't kill for fun or pleasure.
He just takes out people who kind of deserve it, right?
Yes, but he does kind of do it for pleasure because he's obsessed.
He can't not kill.
So instead of killing good people, he decides he will only ever kill bad people.
It's a really good show.
I've watched a couple of episodes and it's very, very good.
The same as CSI.
There are a couple of different versions.
There's CSI Miami, New York, and Las Vegas.
But my favorite is Las Vegas.
It's very, very good.
And also Law & Order.
I've watched a couple of episodes of Law & Order.
It's pretty good.
Yeah, they often talk about forensics because they have both parts.
They have the police part and the law part with the lawyers who have to use the evidence
in court.
And there's also, well, forensic scientists, they take a look at the evidence.
But I think also they examine the body back at the morgue, right?
They look at the body to find out what happened to the body.
This is all a part of reconstructing the crime.
So this person is also sometimes called a coroner, right?
Okay, the person who analyzes the body.
It's pretty scary though if you think about it, having to analyze a body.
I think you have to be very experienced.
It's a very interesting...
I don't even know how somebody becomes a forensic scientist, for example.
Do you study this in school?
Oh, you can go to school for it.
Yeah, they have lots of forensic programs.
I think I saw on Discovery Channel, they have a reality TV show about forensic students
and they're actually taken to real crime scenes and then they get eliminated one by one.
Well, I'm curious to know, have you ever heard of this before, forensic science or forensic
anthropology?
There are lots of people who study this and who do this as a job.
And if you're not interested in that, maybe you could tell us about what kind of crime
drama TV shows you like, because we certainly love them here.
All right, we'll see everyone there.
My name is Catherine and today we are here with an advanced level lesson.
That means that we're going to listen to a pretty long and exciting dialogue and then
we'll talk a little bit about what you've heard and some of these cool interesting phrases.
Today we have a lesson about planning a crime or planning a bank robbery.
Oh, my favorite.
There have been lots of movies about this topic, very fun movies.
From the beginning of movie making till now, it's a very popular topic.
On this occasion, as Catherine said, it's a nice fun dialogue and we're going to have
a lot of colloquial terms.
Maybe you won't really understand a couple of different phrases because they're very
colloquial.
They're very American terms.
The accents are also, they're a little bit from Boston, kind of like New Jersey maybe
So, keep an ear out for some of the strange or unusual phrases.
We will be talking about them in a moment.
But don't worry, if you don't understand this dialogue the first time, you'll be hearing
it again later.
Let's run through this one more time from the top.
I will be positioned here, across from the bank on this park bench.
Now according to the intel we got from Jimmy.
Oh, who's Jimmy?
Geez, Ralph, pay attention, will ya?
Jimmy's our mole, you know?
The guy on the inside.
He's been snooping and passing on the info to us so we can pull this heist off.
Yeah, Ralph, clean the mothballs out of your ears and listen up.
This here is important.
We don't want to end up back in the slammer, do ya?
Your role is pretty important here.
We're dependent on you, man.
Okay, okay, I'm listening.
Mothballs.
Alrighty then.
Where was I?
Yeah, okay, so I'll be on the lookout, sitting here on the bench across from the bank.
Nobody moves until I give the go-ahead, all right?
And what's the go-ahead, Ralph?
You uh, you uh, oh yeah, you'll take off your hat and scratch your head.
When I take my hat off and scratch my head, you do what?
I get in the box.
Right, you get in the box.
I'll make sure it's all sealed and then posing as the delivery guy, I'll drop off a special
package for the manager.
Now according to Jimmy, the bank manager's leaving early on Tuesday, because it's his
wedding anniversary.
He and the wife are having a romantic rendezvous in the country, so any packages delivered
will be left unopened in his office until he gets back late on Wednesday.
Which gives us access to his office for at least 12 hours.
Okay Ralph, this is where you come in.
Where are you?
I'm standing right next to you, Sammy.
Oh sorry, Sam.
I'm in the box, right here in that box.
And what do you do once I deliver you to the manager's office?
I stay in the box until the bank is closed, and then I get out of the box.
And then?
What next, Ralph?
Oh for Pete's sake, this is never going to work.
Hey, give me a chance here, fellas.
I crack the safe and then, then I take the money, and then I, um, I get back in the box.
Atta boy, Ralph.
In the morning, I come back to the bank, say there's been a mix-up with the delivery I
made, and take the special package back here.
Alright, let's get some sleep.
It's a big day tomorrow, fellas.
A perfect plan, Sammy!
It went off without a hitch!
Let's open this up and get Ralph out of here so we can start counting the money.
Phew, I sure am glad to see you guys.
I was sure getting lonely with no one to talk.
Okay, how much?
Uh, really?
Really, really, really glad.
Money, Ralph, money!
Oh man, I knew I forgot something.
So, um, obviously this guy Ralph, I don't know why, always the one robber whose name
is Ralph is not very clever.
No, it doesn't mean that Ralphs are generally not smart people, but yeah, I think you're
There's usually...
Yeah, like in bank robberies or something, like for example in the old movies, always
Ralph was the one that was messing things up.
Oh, Ralph.
Well, let's find out what Ralph screwed up today.
First of all, we've got the guys Sammy, Ralph, and Frankie who are talking about the plan.
And Sammy mentions that he had the intel from Jimmy.
Okay, so when we talk about intel, we're talking about information, right?
So intel is a word that's short for intelligence or facts or information.
So you can talk about intelligence as maybe you're very smart, you're very intelligent,
but when we talk about intelligence, we talk about gathering information in order to help
us accomplish an objective.
For example, in movies about the CIA, we often hear them talk about gathering intel.
That means collecting facts.
So they had intel from Jimmy about the bank and the layout.
And well, they were like, who's Jimmy?
And Sammy says that, well, he's our mole, you know, the guy on the inside.
A mole.
So mole is an animal.
But in cases of intelligence, or maybe in this case, a bank robbery, spying, a mole
is a person who's basically stealing information.
So for example, if I work in the CIA, but I'm selling information from the CIA to the
French government, I'm a mole.
So you're basically like a spy.
You're a person on the inside.
And that's what they mean when he says, he's our guy on the inside.
You're inside the enemy's territory or you're inside their organization.
So for example, have you seen the show 24?
Yeah, with Jack Bauer.
Well, they often have this problem of moles inside the organization.
So maybe the terrorists have a guy on the inside.
He's a mole.
So they have somebody that has penetrated their organization.
Okay, so they talk about the mole and how they are going to pull this heist off.
Okay, so the phrase here is to pull off a heist.
First of all, what's a heist?
Well, a heist is a robbery, is basically a robbery.
Yeah, it's another word for robbery.
It's kind of old though.
You don't really say it anymore, right?
No, you can say it's a heist movie or it's a movie about a heist.
It's almost like a genre.
So there's a basic storyline where they plan the robbery, they do the robbery, something
goes wrong, what's going to happen?
So that's a heist.
So a heist is something that was planned out, like a robbery that's planned out.
It's not really if you come up to someone and say, give me your wallet.
That's not really a heist.
No, that's a stick up.
But a heist is something that you pull off.
So to pull off is to succeed.
To accomplish.
So I pulled it off.
I was able to do it.
So you pulled off the heist.
And well, they were talking about if they do it, they don't want to get caught because
they don't want to go back to the slammer.
The slammer.
Yeah, well, I don't blame them.
I wouldn't want to go to the slammer either.
So what is the slammer?
The big house.
Lock up, the slammer, the big house.
All these are colloquial synonyms for prison, for jail.
Jail.
Normally we say prison or jail, like it's a maximum security prison, like prison break,
the TV show.
But in colloquial English, we often say slammer.
The slammer or the big house.
So they were talking that they don't want to go back to the slammer.
And now when they were actually planning out the crime, he says, well, you wait until I
give you the go ahead.
So this is the plan.
He's going to wait for a sign.
The go ahead means a sign that indicates that it's time to do something.
So for example, so in this case, what is that sign?
The sign or the go ahead is he'll take off his hat and scratch his head.
So that's a sign that means it's okay to proceed.
It's okay to continue.
So you can also say, okay, when we're ready to go, Marco, I'll give you the go ahead.
Just wait for me to wave.
That's a signal.
Now moving on, we have a French word here, but that's used very commonly in English.
And they said, okay, we have a rendezvous.
So a rendezvous is a meetup or a time or place where people are connecting together.
So for example, in a heist, you could say we're going to rob the bank and then we will
rendezvous at our favorite restaurant in two hours.
So a rendezvous is to meet up, to get together.
But in this case, they're talking about a romantic rendezvous.
So this means a trip with a lover.
So it's a little bit different, right?
He and his wife are having a romantic rendezvous in the country.
That means that they're going to have a romantic meeting.
And now this next phrase is very, very interesting.
It's very common to hear it as well.
I think like moms say it a lot.
Oh, for Pete's sake.
Well, I don't know who Pete is, honestly.
But this means my gosh or come on or I'm so tired of this.
So you're a little bit exasperated.
Maybe you're a little bit irritated.
Oh, for Pete's sake, Marco.
Stop giving me examples.
I'm just, I'm done hearing them.
So there are a lot of other ways to say this, right?
So you could say for goodness sake.
For goodness sake or oh, for heaven's sake.
For heaven's sake.
And finally, for God's sake.
But this one you have to be careful because some people who are religious might be offended
if you use it.
So if that's the case, then you would just rather go with Pete's sake, heaven's sake
or goodness sake.
For goodness sake.
It's a very common phrase and as you say, it's for when you're a little bit irritated.
It's like oh, for goodness sake.
Stop complaining.
And now for our last word.
You may have seen the word fellas.
Fellas.
So this comes from the word fellow, person, man.
But oftentimes in these kind of movies or stories about heists or crimes, the men talk
to each other using the word fella or fellas.
So come on, fellas.
That means come on, guys.
Come on, everyone.
So this is always about men, not like a group of women would use this.
And it's something that's a little bit older.
We don't really say this like oh, me and my fellas, we're going to go to the store.
You would say this more in old time English.
You can see it maybe in some movies when somebody comes up and greets other people, other guys,
he would say hey, fellas.
Or there's a mafia movie.
It's about the American mafia called Goodfellas.
It's a very famous one.
So it kind of gives you that feeling of an older English like the 1940s to the 1970s.
So we've got a lot of things going on in this bank robbery.
Why don't we go back, listen to the dialogue one last time and we'll be back in a little
Alright let's run through this one more time from the top.
I will be positioned here across from the bank on this park bench.
Yeah, okay.
So, I'll be on the lookout, sitting here on the bench across from the bank.
Nobody moves until I give the go-ahead, alright?
Now, according to Jimmy, the bank manager's leaving early on Tuesday, because it's his
Oh, sorry Sam, I'm in the box, right here, in that box.
Oh, for Pete's sake, this is never going to work.
In the morning I come back to the bank, say there's been a mix-up with the delivery I
made and take the special package back here.
Oh, man, I knew I forgot something.
Okay, so, someone proclaimed at the end of the dialogue that everything went off without
a hitch.
Is this true?
What does it mean if something went without a hitch?
It went off without a hitch means there was not even one problem.
It went off, it went perfectly.
Smoothly.
Smoothly, yes.
And it didn't because, well, these robbers didn't actually rob anyone.
Right, he forgot to get the money.
Right, so he's kind of an idiot.
But there are actually a lot of good movies.
I think the most recent one about bank robberies is Ocean's Eleven, Ocean's Twelve, Ocean's
Thirteen.
Those are all about big heists.
Big heists.
And I think they mentioned the word heist a couple of times in that movie.
So, there was a movie with Clive Owen a few years ago called The Inside Man that was maybe
one of the best heist movies I've seen in a long time.
Yeah, that was a really good movie.
I think also Swordfish was a pretty good movie with John Travolta.
Yeah, I remember that one, too.
Yeah, I like it when the bad guys win, you know, because it's a little bit more interesting.
Yeah, I guess you could say that.
I don't think the public likes this.
Well, in The Inside Man, the bad guy is kind of a good guy, but he wins.
Yeah, I like that.
So, but it's a very interesting topic and I don't know, I haven't really heard of many
bank robberies nowadays anymore.
Not so much.
I think security in banks is pretty good, but I'd be very curious to hear from our users
if they have any favorite heist stories or movies, real or fake.
Both are okay.
You can let us know on our website, EnglishPod.com.
Thanks for having us, everyone.
My name is Katrin, and today we've got some kids for you in this dialogue.
They're doing something that's very common in America.
I'm not so sure if it's common elsewhere, but we'll find that out later.
So today we're going to ask for money because we are having a fundraiser.
So this is a very interesting word.
Why don't we take a look at it in Vocabulary Preview?
So a fundraiser is a thing.
It's an event.
It's something that you do at a school or a business to try and collect money for a
special event or charity.
So money, you can also say is funds, right?
And that's what you're trying to do.
You're trying to collect.
You're trying to gather a lot of money or funds in order for, like you say, some sort
of objective purpose.
So it's not just like we're having a fundraiser to earn more profits this year.
It's usually an event that's for some kind of charity or good cause.
So for example, the company is having a fundraiser for Jenny's child because he's sick and they
can't pay for medical care.
So a fundraiser is for a good cause.
So that's what this dialogue is all about today.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue for the first time and we'll be back in a bit.
Okay, Mark, it's your turn to ring the doorbell.
I did it last time.
I hate going door to door and I hate asking for money.
But we need to raise enough money for the school fundraiser so that our class can win
the pizza party.
You do want to have a pizza party, don't you?
Yes, but...
Just go already.
No one's coming.
Try again.
Maybe there's no one home.
Of course there's someone home.
There are two cars in the driveway and I can see lights on in the house.
Anybody home?
We would like to know if you want to sponsor us in our school fundraiser.
50% of the profits go towards the new school playground.
I don't know why anyone would want what's in this catalogue anyway.
It's just a bunch of tacky Christmas ornaments.
CDs of old people singing Christmas songs and special crackers and cheeses and boxes
of chocolate.
You don't like chocolate?
Not this kind.
They've got weird names like ganache and praline.
Look, I just saw someone walking around inside.
These people are being very rude.
Finally, someone's coming.
They don't look too happy.
Hi, sir.
Would you like to sponsor us or make a donation to...
What grade are you kids in?
Grade 7.
Then for goodness sake, don't you see this sign?
Can't you read?
No soliciting.
Alright, so obviously the kids are selling candy and a lot of different things for their
new playground.
That's the fundraiser, right?
So they use a lot of interesting words and phrases there.
Why don't we take a look at a couple of them on Language Takeaway.
Well, the first word is one that Marco, you've already talked a little bit about today.
We talked about fundraiser, to raise.
Well, we do have the verb here, to raise enough money.
So raise is a verb that means to collect or gather or to get.
So you wouldn't really say we are collecting money or we are gathering money.
You say we are raising money for the victims of the earthquake in Haiti.
And the reason we don't say we are earning money is because you're not doing any work.
Really, you're not going to the job at 9 o'clock and leaving the job at 5 o'clock.
You're actually asking people for donations.
So that's what you're doing.
You are raising money.
And now moving on, another way that you can help people maybe through a charity or donation
is also to sponsor.
To sponsor someone or something.
Okay, so people can sponsor events or people and companies can also do this as well.
So to sponsor someone is basically to give them money in support of a cause.
For example, have you ever done one of those 5K runs or 10K runs?
Did you have to collect sponsors basically to find people who would help pay money for
you to do this run?
Not personally, but I know people who have, who actually get companies interested and
maybe that person, for example, is going to run 5K in this race in order to raise money
for victims of some serious illness.
And so they get sponsors, they get companies to donate money for this cause.
You could have a person or a company sponsor you, they could be your sponsor by giving
you money that you can then use for this charity or special cause.
So the difference between a fundraiser and to sponsor something or someone is that sponsoring
is not always for a charity or for some sort of non-profit cause, right?
We have many sponsors for concerts or for sporting events.
So oftentimes when you see athletes, they have their sponsors or their sponsors logos
written all over their jerseys, the clothes that they wear.
So for example, if you're watching Formula One racing, you see the Ferrari and the bank
emblems and all these different things.
So those are different ways of sponsoring events or people.
And now moving on, we have a word that's not really related to money and fundraisers, but
it's a very interesting word and very common.
When the kids mention that they're selling a bunch of tacky Christmas ornaments.
Tacky.
So we're going to hear this a lot and the interesting thing about the word tacky is
that it means something different to everyone.
So what I think is tacky might be just normal for Marco and what Marco thinks is really
tacky might be something that I actually like.
And so tacky is basically a bad thing.
It means something is not good looking or not very fashionable.
It's like in bad taste.
But as you say, taste is something subjective, right?
So maybe for example, sometimes we say that when girls wear too much makeup, it's very
tacky, bright red lipstick and blue eyeshadow.
So a guy might say, oh, that's so tacky.
Whereas another person might not think it's tacky at all.
So this happens a lot and we use this word a lot with decorations, for example, for someone's
house, you may describe it as tacky or a restaurant or a bar.
So for maybe sometimes those Italian restaurants that have the red and white checkered table
claws and the pictures of the Italians with the mustaches, I might think that's a little
bit tacky.
But maybe you think it's cute.
So something that's tacky.
And as we say, people use it all the time.
And it's not necessarily a bad thing.
You can just say, oh, it's a little bit tacky or I think this thing is a little bit tacky.
Solicit.
So a little bit of a language takeaway, towards the end of the dialogue, when the kids were
reading the sign, the sign said, no soliciting.
And they didn't understand what that means.
What does it mean when you have a sign that says no soliciting?
So to solicit is to try to sell something or to offer a service.
So basically the sign means, please don't come to my house and sell me stuff.
For example, we have door to door insurance salesmen or makeup salespeople.
And these people go to your door and they try to sell you their product.
And no soliciting means, don't come to my house.
I'm not going to answer the door if you're trying to sell something.
So to solicit is to try and sell something.
But usually in person, trying to make a sale uninvited, right?
Because if you're a businessman and you have a meeting, a sales meeting, you're not really
soliciting with that other person.
No, this is basically trying to sell something to a stranger.
Let's listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back shortly with Fluency Builder.
It's just a bunch of tacky Christmas ornaments, CDs of old people singing Christmas songs
and special crackers and cheeses and boxes of chocolates.
No soliciting?
Alright so now we're back and we have four key phrases for you on Fluency Builder.
Okay, this first phrase is a pretty common one.
We wanted to make sure that everyone was comfortable with the verb that goes with doorbell.
So Marco, what do you do to a doorbell?
You ring the doorbell.
So you don't touch it, you don't press it.
You can press it, but you ring the doorbell.
That's the verb.
Okay, so for example, when I was little, my brother and I always used to fight about who
could ring the doorbell.
I loved ringing the doorbell and so did he.
Do you do the long ring or do you do the...
Ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding.
You do it like that.
The annoying ring.
Yeah, so to ring the doorbell.
Alright, alright.
And well, going back, when we were talking about no soliciting, you said that salespeople
go door to door selling things.
So this is an interesting phrase and it's a fixed phrase, going door to door.
Well, think about it.
So a salesperson who wants to sell maybe some makeup goes to one house and no one wants
to buy any makeup there.
So she goes to the next house.
So she's going from house to house.
But we don't really say house to house because she's going to your door to offer the makeup.
So we just say going door to door.
That means going to strangers' homes in order, one door after the next, to sell something.
You go door to door.
So for example, someone can go door to door asking for some sugar.
Or we could say he is a door to door salesman.
Door to door salesman.
And now we have an interesting question and it's a very good one because it's a question
that comes up a lot.
When somebody asks you, if you're studying for example, what grade are you in?
Okay, what grade are you in?
So in the American system, for example, we have the very, very bottom, grade K, which
is kindergarten for maybe a five-year-old.
And at the very top, we have high school, grade 12.
And so in between we have one, two, three, four, five, you know, and up.
And so basically to find out what year in school a student is, you have to ask him or
her, what grade are you in?
So then the person would say, I'm in sixth grade, I'm in eighth grade.
But this is the way you ask this question for school as you said, a kid that's maybe
five years old all the way to 18 years old in high school.
What grade are you in?
Now if you're in university and you want to ask your friend what year of university that
person's in, then you say, what year are you?
What year are you?
Yeah, you don't say grade.
So basically grade refers to like what you said, Marco, those first 12 years of school.
And so we call them, we thought, no, we don't call it grade 12.
So you could ask anybody under the age of 18, what grade are you in?
But when you go to university or when you're talking about university students, it gets
a little bit different.
So you can say, what year are you in or what year are you?
So if you're not sure about someone's age and you maybe think they're in college, you
can ask them, what year are you?
But generally anyone under 18, what grade are you in?
And our last phrase, and this is kind of an expression, right?
Goodness sake, for goodness sake.
Okay, so let's look at the context.
The kids say, we're in grade seven.
And the person at the door says, then for goodness sake, don't you see this sign?
Right, for goodness sake.
So this is an expression that's used to indicate maybe you're a little bit frustrated.
So it's like, come on, or my goodness, or for Pete's sake.
So we have many ways of saying, all right, come on, I'm a little tired of this.
You're irritating me.
So basically the person's saying, you are too old for this.
You're too old for this.
You should read what it says on my door.
And so the person's angry.
Because these kids are trying to sell her something when clearly she has a sign that
says no soliciting.
Why don't we go back, listen to our dialogue for the very last time, and we'll be back
to talk with you a little bit more.
It's just a bunch of tacky Christmas ornaments, CDs of old people singing Christmas songs,
All right, so door-to-door salesman.
I think this used to be a very American thing.
I think back in the 50s, you would always see movies where this was actually a profession.
People would go door-to-door selling hairbrushes or magazine subscriptions, pretty much everything.
Yeah, you still see it sometimes.
Some people sell insurance or there are a lot of religious door-to-door salespeople
who want to sell religious books or magazines.
But I think it was much more popular in the 1950s because people didn't really use their
phones as much to sell things.
It was cheaper to have someone drive his car to your neighborhood and then go to every
single house.
But yeah, it's a very interesting job.
I think it'd be very lonely.
And also, I think, well, now maybe that's been reduced a lot because now you have the
internet.
Oh yeah, well the internet means that the salespeople come to you without you having
to get up.
So basically, you're sitting at home in your pajamas and you can order a TV and some clothes.
But it's very interesting because I remember you would have all these door-to-door salesmen.
For example, I had one visit me once who was selling me encyclopedias.
A big collection of like, I don't know, 37 books or more.
It was a huge amount of books, encyclopedias.
And I don't know if you see that anymore.
Not really, not in the States.
I don't know if anyone buys physical, huge encyclopedias to have in their home.
No, only collectors perhaps.
So it's a very interesting profession.
I don't know, in the United States, as you say, it's not very common anymore.
Very little, maybe specific services.
But this is interesting.
Maybe in your country, this is still a big thing.
Yeah, let us know.
In your country, are door-to-door salespeople still common?
Do you see them?
All right, bye-bye.
My name is Catherine and today we're talking about weddings.
We are having a wedding but we're actually planning all the things out for the wedding.
So there are lots of things to think about when you're planning a wedding and I don't
think that the woman in today's dialogue has forgotten anything.
Let's take a listen to the dialogue first and we'll be back in a moment.
Trina, will you marry me?
Yes, yes, yes!
Jared, of course I'll marry you.
Oh babe, I can't wait to spend the rest of my life with you.
I can't wait for all the adventures we're going to have, for all the fights and the
laughter.
I can't wait to grow old and wrinkly with you.
Oh Jared, I can't wait for our wedding.
I hope you don't mind but I've already chosen a date, six months from now in the summer.
Melissa saw you buying the ring last month so I had plenty of time to start planning.
She what?
Oh, don't worry sweetie.
I didn't know when you were going to propose.
It was still a nice surprise.
As I was saying, I've got it all planned out.
There's almost nothing left to do.
I wrote up our guest list and we will have roughly 400 guests attending.
400?
No need to sweat it.
My parents agreed to pay for most of the wedding, which is going to be a low budget anyway.
So roughly 400 people, which means that the hall at Northwood Heights will be our reception
venue.
I thought it would be nice if we had the wedding at your parents' church, and my uncle of
course would be officiating.
We'll meet with him soon for some pre-wedding counselling.
The music for the wedding ceremony was a no-brainer.
My stepsister and her string quartet will take care of that.
My cousin will be the official photographer.
I thought it would also be nice if his daughter could sing a solo.
Did you know that she's going to be a professional opera singer?
And then of course the ladies at the church would love to be our caterers for the banquet
and will get the youth group to serve us.
I was thinking that your friend's band could be our entertainment for the night, though
they might have to tone it down a bit.
Or we could hire a DJ.
Your sister's husband could get us a discount with that company that does the decor at weddings.
What's their name again?
I was thinking that we could have an island paradise themed wedding and our theme colour
would be a soothing blue-like aquamarine.
And there would be a huge seashell on the wall behind the podium where we'll make our
toasts.
What do you think of small packages of drink mixes for our wedding favours?
Who else am I missing?
Oh, your uncle could be our florist and his wife could make our wedding cake.
See, it's going to be wonderful.
Oh, this wedding is going to be everything I ever dreamed of.
If I survive the next six months.
So she talked a lot.
So there are a lot of words and phrases here that we're going to take a look at.
So let's start with a couple of them on Language Takeaway.
Alright so on Language Takeaway, why don't we start off with the first word and the basic
When you plan a wedding, the guy needs to propose.
Or the woman.
Let's be 21st century here.
Normally it's the man but to propose in this instance means to propose marriage.
So basically this is the part where someone gets down on his knee and he says, you know,
sweetie pie, I want to be with you forever.
Will you marry me?
To propose.
So to propose is to ask someone to marry you.
But it can also mean something else, right?
To suggest.
So I could propose an idea.
Or I could propose a plan.
But in this case, to propose has another meaning and it's basically to ask someone to marry
So now we've proposed to someone.
So we need to start planning our wedding and I think one of the first steps is you need
to know how many people are going to be there and who you're going to invite.
So when you're planning a wedding, you have to think about the people that are going to
attend the wedding so you prepare a guest list.
So a guest list.
Now it's pretty simple, right?
You have a list where you put everyone's name there and you know how many people are coming.
A guest list.
Now you have your guest list and now you need to pick a place where your wedding will be.
So we often talk about two parts to a wedding.
The first part is the ceremony, the wedding ceremony.
Maybe if you're religious, that happens in a church.
But there's a party afterwards and that's what we're talking about here.
We're talking about a reception.
A reception is basically the party part of the wedding where you drink and eat and listen
to music and dance.
So obviously for that, you need a space, a place to have the party and we call it the
reception venue.
A venue.
So as you said, the reception is the party and the venue is the place where you have
Now a venue is not a specific word, right?
You can use venue for many different places.
So for example, someone's having a concert, I can ask him, hey, what's the venue?
That means what is the theater or where's this place you're going to have the concert?
So for example, a stadium can be a venue or a restaurant can be a venue.
So a venue is a place where an event can be held.
So now we have our reception venue.
We have our guest list and the girl was talking about her uncle officiating.
What does she mean by to officiate?
So like you said, the verb here is to officiate.
Her uncle will be officiating.
That means he will be the person who marries them.
So maybe you've seen movies before where there's a priest who says, you know, do you take this
woman to be your lawfully wedded wife until death do you part?
That person who says that, the person who asks the questions, he or she officiates.
Officiate.
So that's basically the action of marrying someone or leading the ceremony.
And in America, this isn't just anybody.
Someone has to have a license or has to be a priest and has to have the authority to
officiate.
So that's a very interesting word there too, officiate.
Now moving on, when we talk about the food for the reception venue, well, we need somebody
to cook it and prepare it and that's when we hire caterers.
So a caterer is kind of like a cook, but a caterer basically arranges a meal for many
And usually the person will bring the food to you.
So for example, if we're going to have a party, Marco, and we're going to throw it at a venue
10 miles away, the caterer will bring the food to us.
So that's a caterer.
You get someone to cater your wedding.
Or cater a party.
So I've had parties before that I've called caterers to make the food for.
So basically they work with me and I tell them the kind of food I would like and they
prepare it.
And now for our last part for the wedding planning, you have the food, you have the
venue, you have everything, but you also need to decorate a little bit and this is when
you call a florist.
Florist.
So this sounds a lot like flower, right?
Florist flower.
And that's basically what this person does.
A florist is a person who prepares flowers or who cuts flowers and uses them to decorate.
So you go to the florist to buy flowers, roses and different types of things.
A florist.
So we have six key words there that are related to planning a wedding.
Why don't we move on now to a couple of phrases on Fluency Builder.
So this first phrase is a really good one.
It's a little bit gross.
We're talking about sweat.
The woman in this dialogue says, hey, no need to sweat it.
So if you say to sweat means when you're running, you're doing exercise, it's hot, water starts
to come out of your skin.
But if the person says, hey, don't sweat it or no need to sweat it, it's a colloquial
way of saying, don't worry.
So we're not actually talking about sweat here.
So maybe Marco, you and I are working on a project together and I say, listen, Marco,
I have a family emergency.
I can't finish the project with you.
Would you be able to help me out?
Sure, sure.
Don't sweat it.
It's not a problem.
So don't worry.
So if you tell someone to not sweat it, don't sweat it, or no need to sweat it, you're basically
telling them it's okay.
Everything's going to be fine.
So the next phrase here is also kind of relaxed.
It's kind of laid back.
So the woman is still describing some of the things she's prepared for the wedding and
she says, hey, listen, don't worry.
The music was a no brainer.
No brainer.
This is really easy.
Well, your brain is inside your head, right?
So if you say no brainer, it's basically saying you don't have to think about it too much
or it's very easy, very simple.
So I was deciding on where to go on vacation and the options were Thailand or Antarctica.
That's a no brainer.
Thailand.
Obviously, I want to go where it's sunny and warm.
So a no brainer means I didn't even have to think about it.
It was that easy.
The decision making was a no brainer.
So for our next phrase, the girl was also talking about the music and she was talking
about a band, maybe like a rock band and she said, well, maybe they could play, but they
would need to tone it down.
So this is a favorite phrase of parents, I think, all over the English speaking world.
Tone it down.
In this case, we're talking about music.
So maybe like you said, the friend's band is a rock and roll band and it's really loud
and angry and in your face, but for a wedding, that's not appropriate.
So to tone it down means to make it more appropriate for the occasion.
So maybe less loud or no offensive language or no swear words.
That's basically what tone it down means, right?
If someone says you need to tone it down, it's a little bit more direct.
Like you said, if your parents tell you this, it's maybe because you're being a little bit
too loud or you're yelling or you're being irrespectful.
So that's why your parents would tell you, hey, you need to tone it down a bit.
Or sometimes we have this in the office where someone doesn't understand how to communicate
in a positive way.
And so they say, oh, that paper you did was really bad.
It was stupid.
I don't ever want to see it again.
Say, well, maybe you need to tone it down a little bit.
Think about the words you're using and make them a little bit less harsh.
So kind of to relax, to reduce your level of being aggressive, being loud, that's to
tone it down.
A lot of great phrases there.
Why don't we now go back, listen to our great dialogue one last time and we'll be back to
Yes, yes, yes.
I hope you don't mind, but I've already chosen a date six months from now in the summer.
Melissa saw you buying the ring last month, so I had plenty of time to start planning.
Oh don't worry sweetie, I didn't know when you were going to propose.
I thought it would be nice if we had the wedding at your parents' church, and my uncle of course
would be officiating.
they might have to turn it down a bit.
I was thinking that we could have an island paradise themed wedding, and our theme colour
And there will be a huge seashell on the wall behind the podium where we'll make our toasts.
Oh, your uncle could be our florist, and his wife could make our wedding cake.
Alright so about weddings and planning out a wedding, do you think 400 guests is a small
wedding?
No, this woman is out of control.
In fact, in English, we have a word for a bride, or like a woman who's getting married,
that describes someone who's completely nuts about the wedding.
We call her a bridezilla.
Bridezilla.
Like Godzilla.
Exactly, the movie Godzilla.
He's a monster.
And he's out of control.
He's out of control.
And a bride who's so obsessed with her wedding that nothing else is important, she is a bridezilla.
Now it's a very big thing for a woman, right, for her wedding to be nice and perfect and
Do you think guys are more relaxed in this sense?
I think it depends on the guy, as always.
There are some people who want to be very involved, and some people who don't care.
But in general, I think men are less worried about the details.
Just as long as there's a wedding, it's fine.
Although a lot of men, when the wedding actually happens, start to get very nervous.
But kind of like having doubts, maybe cold feet.
Yes, cold feet.
Like should I get married?
Should I not get married?
I think it's very interesting because you see this in movies a lot.
And I've always wondered how often or how common is it for a guy or a girl to say no
or to leave a wedding when it has already started.
Because you know, you have invited all these people, all these friends and family, maybe
people came from different countries, and food is paid for, venue.
You spend so much money on a wedding and for you to say no.
I don't know how common it is.
It's very common in movies, but I really don't know anyone who's experienced this.
I don't either, actually, now that you bring it up.
So maybe we could talk about this.
Is this common in your country?
First of all, do people spend a lot of money on weddings?
And second of all, have you ever heard of someone actually leaving the wedding before
they finished?
Yes, during the ceremony.
Not before, during.
During the ceremony.
So our website is EnglishPod.com.
My name is Catherine and today we've got an intermediate level lesson all about going
to the beach.
You know, it's a very popular thing to do, especially during the summer.
It's hot.
You want to go maybe to the beach to lay on the sand and maybe get some color.
And also swim in the ocean.
Yeah, it's a nice way to cool off when it's really hot in the summer.
We're going to talk about the beach and a lot of vocab that we find related to this
activity.
But before we get into the dialogue, we have a word for you on Vocabulary Preview.
So the keyword today here is jellyfish.
Jellyfish.
So jellyfish is actually an animal, right?
It's a very dangerous animal.
It's a small little animal.
So these things live in the water and they often live in shallow areas and they can sting
They look like little plastic bags with little strings attached to it.
And they just float around and if you happen to touch one, it hurts a lot.
Yeah, it can be very painful.
So jellyfish is our word today.
Let's take a listen to today's dialogue and we'll be back in a minute to talk more about
Oh George, what a beautiful day it is.
The sun is hot and there are just a few clouds scattered here and there.
What a perfect day to be at the beach.
The kids are going to have so much fun and we'll be able to relax in the sun while they're
playing.
It does seem like the perfect day.
I'm glad we chose to get out of the city and enjoy the nice weather.
This looks like the perfect spot.
Okay kids, put on your sunscreen while your mom and I set up camp.
Here Mary, help me lay down these beach towels.
Can you help me with the umbrella?
Okay kids, here's a beach ball and a frisbee, a pail and a shovel.
I want to see an impressive sandcastle by the time we leave.
Don't stray too far.
Wait, leave your sandals here or put on your wet shoes.
And stay in the shallow area.
I don't want to see you go any further than that sandbar.
It's too deep out there and we didn't bring your floaties.
You're back already?
The water was too cold, huh?
I'll tell you a secret.
Do you see that small pool of water over there?
It'll be warmer in there.
Go see if you can find some seashells or catch some minnows.
Ah!
A jellyfish?
Jeremy, put that down right now.
It could sting you.
Not on me!
So now why don't we take a look at four key words that we have prepared for you today
on Language Takeaway.
First up, we have a very important thing to bring to the beach, especially if you're like
me and you burn easily.
So this thing is called sunscreen.
Okay, sunscreen.
Now this is a liquid and you put it on your skin, right?
And this protects you from the sun.
So basically you put this cream all over your body to prevent sunburns, to prevent burning
under the sun.
So it's called sunscreen or also sometimes called sunblock.
Now we have our sunscreen and we arrive to the beach and one of the parents say, alright,
we're going to set up camp.
Okay, to set up camp.
Well, this might be confusing because as many of you know, camp, camping, this is an activity,
but we're not actually camping here.
We're just going to be at the beach for one day.
So to set up camp means to organize or arrange ourselves in a place.
So it's a colloquial way of saying we are going to organize the area where we're going
to spend the day.
We're going to make ourselves comfortable.
So you set up camp.
So not necessarily that you're going to camp there, but that you're going to prepare the
area.
So this could be used in many other different areas, right?
So sometimes when tickets for really popular concerts go on sale, people line up for days
before they can buy the tickets.
Well, if you're in line, you maybe want to set up camp.
That means make yourself comfortable, sit down, bring a book, open some food packages.
So to set up camp.
And well, when we go to the beach, we want to sit down or lay down on the sand.
And in order to do this, we usually bring along beach towels.
That's right, Marco.
So towels can be any kind of towel.
You have a towel in your bathroom or in your kitchen.
Basically a piece of cloth that you use to dry yourself.
But the special kind of towel we bring to the beach is called, of course, a beach towel.
These are usually much bigger than normal towels.
Yeah, they're very, very big.
And this is usually because you want to lay down on the sand on top of this towel, right?
And the last word that we have for language takeaway is a beach umbrella or just an umbrella.
So maybe you're lying down on this big, comfortable, soft beach towel, and you're afraid of being
under the sun too much.
So an umbrella is a way to protect yourself from the sun.
It provides shade.
So it's called an umbrella.
Or usually if you want to distinguish between the umbrella you use for the rain, you can
call it a beach umbrella.
And these are usually a lot bigger and you don't actually carry them around in your hand.
You have to put them into the sand.
So it stands alone.
So four key phrases there for you on language takeaway.
Why don't we go back, listen to the dialogue again, and we'll be back shortly.
Oh, George, what a beautiful day it is.
Okay, kids, put on your sunscreen while your mom and I set up camp.
Okay, kids, here's a beach ball and a frisbee, a pail and a shovel.
So now we have five more words that we're going to take a look at in Language Takeaway
Part 2.
Okay, so there are lots of fun things to do at the beach.
And today we're not going to be talking about all of them because there are too many things.
But one fun activity is playing frisbee.
That's right, frisbee.
So this is a thing.
It's an object, a frisbee.
Or you also play frisbee.
So a frisbee itself is usually made of plastic and it's like a plate.
And it's very light and you throw it to your friends and it sails through the air.
Right, it kind of flies along the air and then somebody else has to catch it.
So you can play frisbee or throw the frisbee.
It's very popular with people playing frisbee with their dogs, right?
You throw the frisbee and the dog chases it.
Dogs love frisbee.
Alright, another great activity that usually we do when we go to the beach is we build
sand castles.
Okay, so I'm a master sand castle builder.
I'm a really big fan of this activity.
Basically, you use water and sand to create castles.
And obviously, you have to use tools like shovels and buckets.
Otherwise, it might look kind of funny.
And this is actually such a popular activity that there are even competitions at times.
People will not only build castles or houses or structures but maybe a statue of some sort
or an animal or different things.
That's right or people.
People, yeah.
So sand castle.
And well, whenever we go to the beach, the ocean can be a little bit dangerous.
And that's why in the dialogue, one of the parents told their kids to stay in the shallow
area of the water.
So shallow is it describes depth.
So how deep something is.
Something is shallow, it's not very deep.
So there's very little water.
But if there's a lot of water, maybe if you swim and you can't touch your feet on the
ground, we call that deep.
So shallow is very low water and deep is lots and lots of water.
So you'll usually find this in the ocean.
If you go further, further, further in, it'll get deeper and deeper and deeper.
And more and more dangerous.
And this is why the mom also told the kid to not pass that sandbar that was ahead.
Okay, sandbar.
This is a piece of sand that basically rises very high in the water.
So usually when you're on the beach and you go into the water and it gets deeper and deeper
and then all of a sudden it gets high again and there's more sand.
And so that part that you can stand on, that sand out in the water, that's called a sandbar.
It's almost like a little island.
And as you said, usually it gets deeper, deeper, then you have the sandbar so it gets higher.
But usually if you pass the sandbar, it's going to get really deep all of a sudden.
So that's why the mother doesn't want her child to go past the sandbar.
And as well, if you're ever swimming in a swimming pool in the ocean, it's always a
good idea if you don't know how to swim well or if you have children to take along little
floaties.
Okay, floaties.
I like this word.
Floaties are plastic rings that you put around your arms or maybe around your stomach and
they're filled with air.
So when you go in the water, they help you float.
So this is a very common thing to put on children because they don't know how to swim well.
So you put them little floaties on their arms or around their stomachs and then they can
just float and they won't drown.
Floaties.
So a lot of key words there are related to the fun of going to the beach.
Why don't we go back, listen to the dialogue for the very last time.
Okay, kids.
Here's a beach ball and a frisbee, a pail and a shovel.
I want to see an impressive sand castle by the time we leave.
All right, so beach activities.
You say you're a master sand castle builder.
I love building sand castles.
I won't say that I'm very good at it.
Maybe not a professional.
But I do a pretty good sand castle.
Do you like getting buried in the sand?
Although it also scares me.
Have you ever had someone maybe cover you with sand and then you can't move?
Yeah, so it's a little bit scary.
Obviously I'm not very comfortable with having my head covered.
But some people even do that.
They cover their entire body, head to toe.
How do they breathe?
And they have a straw out of their mouth to breathe.
I actually love going to the beach and it's relaxing, it's really fun.
But I don't really enjoy it going when there are a lot of people.
Because I like to relax on the beach.
But when there are too many people, they're running around, there are kids running around
and it's not very relaxing.
Yeah, I hear you.
But swimming in the ocean is also very dangerous, right?
It can be.
So we recommend you go places where there are lifeguards on duty or that you go with
an expert swimmer.
Lifeguards.
That's all we've got though for today.
We hope you've enjoyed this lesson and we hope you're excited about the upcoming summer
If you have any questions or comments, please do visit our website EnglishPod.com.
My name is Catherine and today we've got an upper intermediate level lesson.
We're going to go and buy shoes.
Okay, this is very fun.
I like buying shoes.
Although I have a hard time finding shoes in my size sometimes but we're here talking
about men's shoes specifically.
We've actually decided to talk about this topic, buying shoes separately between men
and women's shoes because I think each type of shoe has its own type of vocab and that
can be very useful for men or women.
So let's take a listen to today's dialogue and we'll be back in a moment to talk more
about the specifics of men's shoe styles.
Hi, I'm looking for a pair of shoes for my son.
Here we are.
If you're looking for dress shoes, we have several different styles of Oxford for boys.
We also carry athletic shoes, hiking boots.
Oh, Jacob, how about these sneakers?
Mom, they've got Velcro.
Well, then how about these?
What is this style called?
They're tennis shoes.
They're very popular with teens and young adults.
Oh, mom, can I get these?
What are those?
They're Chuck Taylors.
Everyone has them.
Can I please?
Would they go with your clothes?
The backs are really high and the way the tongue just sticks up, they're almost like
a boot and the sole doesn't look like it would have a very good grip.
They're only $45 and they've got cool fluorescent orange shoelaces.
Mom!
Okay, try them on.
What size are your feet?
He's a size nine.
We'll try a size 43 on you first and see how that fits.
A what?
They come in European sizes.
He should be a size 43.
I'll be right back.
So as you saw, we have a lot of different shoe styles and so we're going to take a
look at these on Language Takeaway.
Okay, first up we have a very popular style of shoe.
This is called an athletic shoe.
Okay, athletic shoe.
Now I imagine that athletes wear these shoes.
Good guess, Marco.
So athletic athletes.
This is actually for sports in general.
So this is sports shoes but in English we say athletic shoes.
Okay, so it's not specifically for any type of sport but they're just comfortable shoes
that you can do most sports in.
Right, like running shoes and basketball shoes and soccer shoes.
These are all kinds of athletic shoes.
So these types of athletic shoes, they're usually kind of low, right?
They don't have a lot of support around the ankle.
No, but they do have a lot of support in the heel, the bottom of your foot.
Right, because you're running, you need that extra support.
Now on the opposite, if you're going hiking, if you're maybe trekking, then you need a
special type of shoe that's going to give more ankle support and these are called hiking
Okay, hiking boots.
So like you were saying, you get a lot of support in your ankle, that's the back of
your foot and the area around your leg.
So these shoes tend to come higher on your leg.
They're taller on your leg and they're usually pretty heavy.
And I think they are more weather resistant.
So if it rains or if it's wet, these shoes will respond better.
You're not going to get wet feet.
So hiking boots.
And now we have another interesting word, I never really understood why they're called
this way, but we have sneakers.
Sneakers.
Okay, I love sneakers.
I always wear sneakers.
A very common brand that you see with sneakers is Puma, also Adidas.
So Converse is another brand.
Sneakers are shoes that are not fancy, they're not like leather or work shoes, but they're
also not athletic shoes because you don't necessarily use them when you're playing sports.
They're basically very simple shoes for normal daily stuff.
Normal walking.
Young people wear them usually.
Okay, sneakers.
Now I never understood why they're called sneakers because I think if you sneak maybe
on someone, I guess these shoes are good for sneaking up on people.
Perhaps, I don't know.
They're less noisy than other shoes.
Okay, so we have sneakers.
And now another type of shoe that can be a little bit confusing, they're called tennis
shoes.
Okay, tennis shoes can be considered a kind of sneaker.
Again, it's not the kind of shoe that you would normally wear to work.
It's not leather, it's not a hiking boot.
They're low shoes, so low ankles generally.
And they tie up.
But you would think that you use these shoes to play tennis.
Not necessarily.
But not necessarily, right?
I mean, you don't have to play tennis.
They're not specifically designed to play tennis.
Perhaps originally they were tennis shoes for the game tennis, but nowadays they're
very, very common.
They're like sneakers.
They're shoes that most young people wear to school or to play around in.
Okay, so they're kind of like you say, a sneaker.
And now moving on, these might seem a little bit strange, but we call them Chuck Taylors.
Chuck Taylors, well basically Chuck Taylor is a brand.
Converse Chuck Taylors.
We also call them Chucks.
And this is a style of shoe that this brand made very famous.
They're very, very thin canvas shoes.
So the fabric is not leather, it's canvas.
And they come in bright red or black or green.
And some of them are very low.
And some of them have a piece of the ankle that comes up.
So it almost looks like a boot to a certain extent.
But it's not like a hiking boot.
It's not very hard.
It doesn't support your ankle as much.
It's just the style is higher.
And so because these are made of fabric, they're very thin.
They're very light.
They're not very good for hiking, for example.
So these are called Chuck Taylors.
They're very, very popular with teenagers, right?
Teenagers all over the world wear Chuck Taylors.
And I think they're very old.
This style, these Chuck Taylors have been around for like 30 years.
Yeah, I think since the 1960s or 70s.
But they're still popular.
And they haven't changed.
They haven't changed.
So these are the five types or styles of shoes that we're going to take a look at.
Why don't we move on now to more specific vocab related to the parts of the shoe on
Language Takeaway Part 2.
So Jacob is talking to his mother and his mom wants to know, hey, how about these sneakers?
And Jacob says, Mom, they've got Velcro.
So Marco, what's this Velcro Jacob speaks of?
Well, as you can see, Velcro is capitalized, right?
And so that means this is a proper noun and it's actually a brand.
It's like Chuck Taylors.
Like Chuck Taylors.
So Velcro is supposed kind of like a zipper, right?
A fastener.
But instead of zipping it up, you just put two pieces of cloth together and they stick.
And when you pull them apart, they make that sound.
They make a loud sound.
And so sometimes with baby shoes or young children's shoes, we don't want to tie them
because that's too hard.
So we have Velcro.
This is a kind of fabric, like you said, that sticks together.
We don't have to spend all this time tying things.
So you see Velcro on hats, on gloves, on jackets, on shoes.
It's a very popular way to make things, close things or to keep things secure.
In a very easy way, right?
You just push them together and that's it.
They're sealed.
So the next time you see it, now you know that it's called Velcro.
I imagine in other languages, it's probably called the same thing.
It's the brand name.
And well, now moving on to the parts of the shoe, we have the tongue.
Well, think about the body part, the tongue, right?
When you look at your tongue, it's straight and it's flat and it kind of curves at the
bottom.
So when you're putting your shoe on, you know, in the front of the shoe, you can make it
stuck.
You have to pull the tongue.
It's a piece of fabric or piece of the shoe where the top of your foot is.
So that's called the tongue.
Now, some shoes have a very small tongue or a low one and others have a very high one.
Like for example, Chuck Taylors, they have a big tongue.
Very long tongue.
And so the tongue is the part that rests on top of your foot.
And usually the shoelaces are over the tongue.
And now moving on to the bottom part of the shoe, that's called the sole.
S-O-L-E.
Sole.
This is a really important part of shoes.
I always look at the sole before I buy a pair of shoes because this is the part that you
use the most because you're walking on the ground.
So for example, hiking boots, they will have a very high sole and they will have kind of
like a pattern so that you don't slip if you're walking on dirt, right?
Sometimes rubber, a rubber sole.
But other times, like Chuck Taylors also have a rubber sole but it's very thin.
And some shoes, for example, they have a plastic sole maybe because they're used for other
purposes so they might be a little bit slippery if you go onto a smooth surface.
So the sole, that's the bottom part of the shoe.
And the last part of the shoe that we're going to take a look at and probably the most
important are the shoelaces.
Shoelaces.
So shoelaces are basically long pieces of string that you use to tie your shoes closed
because you want your shoes to be tight on your foot.
You don't want it to be too loose otherwise it might fall off.
And Chuck Taylors and some other shoes are very famous for having crazy colored laces
or for people using crazy colored laces to tie them up.
So that's the part they use to tie or tighten the shoe with.
So on the opposite, if a shoe doesn't have shoelaces, it's probably going to have Velcro.
Velcro or shoelaces.
So those are all the words that we have for you today.
Why don't we go back and listen to the dialogue for the last time.
I'm looking for a pair of shoes for my son.
a boot.
And the sole doesn't look like it would have a very good grip.
They're only $45.
And they've got cool, fluorescent orange shoelaces.
All right, so talking about shoes, you say that you always take a look at the sole.
Why is this?
Because I'm always afraid that my shoes are going to wear out.
And I don't buy shoes very often.
I love sneakers.
I love my Pumas.
And I love flat shoes.
And so when you buy a pair of shoes you really like, you don't want to buy another pair in
six months.
You want to get a pair that has a really good sole so that it will last for a long time.
I think for me, yeah, that's probably one of the most important parts is the sole, as
long as it's comfortable.
Because some soles of some shoes can be very rigid.
So it's a little bit uncomfortable to walk with.
But I don't know.
I don't really have that many pairs of shoes if I think about it.
Well, most people have one fancy pair of shoes for special occasions.
And then a pair of work shoes that are leather.
And then maybe a couple pairs of sneakers and some sandals for the summer.
So you have sandals and you have flip flops.
Are they the same?
Well, sandals is basically a kind of shoe.
It's an open shoe that you wear in the summer.
Flip flops are a kind of sandal.
So they usually have a V in the front.
And that's where you put your big toe.
The second toe.
So we wear them in the shower or at the beach.
They're usually made of plastic or rubber so that you can get them wet.
But flip flops are a kind of sandal.
It's very interesting how many styles and types of shoes.
And actually for men, I think it's not that complicated.
But when we get into women's shoes, then we'll see a lot of different things.
There are too many styles.
I can't keep track.
But we'll see you guys on the website if you have any questions, any doubts, or if you
just want to chat with us.
We'll see you at EnglishPod.com.
See you guys there.
Try it out.
My name is Catherine and today we're going outside for our lesson.
Today we are gardening.
We are going to set up our own garden.
Okay, that means growing plants and maybe even food.
So let's take a listen to this dialogue and we'll be back in a moment to talk more about
I've decided to grow my own garden.
You don't know the first thing about gardening.
On the contrary, I've been reading a lot of books about the subject.
Tell me then, smarty pants.
How will you go about setting up your garden?
Well, first I need to buy some things such as fertilizer, seeds and tools.
What type of tools?
You know, the basics.
A rake, shovel, spade and a hoe.
Well it seems like you have all your bases covered.
I'll till the soil and then sow the seeds.
I'll then add some fertilizer and voila, gardening all done.
Well, good luck with your garden, especially considering we're in the dry season and it
won't rain for the next three months.
So a lot of vocab related to gardening.
We mentioned a lot of tools and we're going to explain a lot of those now on Language
Okay, so gardening has some very special tools, like you said, Marco.
The first one is one that I am not, well, it's actually not a tool, it's a part of gardening,
something that we use to help the plants grow and I really don't like it because it smells
bad.
It smells kind of bad and it has a very strong smell and that is called fertilizer.
Fertilizer.
So basically, fertilizer is something that you use in your garden to help the plants
grow better.
Right, I think it has a lot of vitamins and minerals that the plant needs to grow better,
faster, stronger.
Exactly, fertilizer.
Well, now we're going to mention four tools that we use in gardening, basic tools.
The first one being a rake.
A rake.
Rake.
So a rake is actually something that's very common in most houses, especially houses with
a yard or a garden.
It's not just a gardening tool, but it is something that has a long handle and we use
it to clear the ground of rocks or leaves.
Right, so just imagine it's kind of like a big brush for your garden.
It collects things, right?
Right, it's like a big brush that's pulling things out of the ground or away from the
ground, especially in the fall, like October or November when all the leaves fall off.
Like October or November when all the leaves fall off the trees and you have to take them
off the grass, you use a rake to pull them.
So you use a rake to pull them and you also call the action of using a rake, you say,
you rake the garden.
To rake, that's right.
To rake the leaves.
I hate raking the leaves.
Alright, and now the other tool that we have is very common, not only in gardening, but
for construction work, for many things.
You have a shovel.
Shovel.
So a shovel is basically a big metal spoon.
And you use it to make a hole in the ground.
So, as we say, we use it a lot in gardening to make holes for maybe the plants, but also
in construction, if you want to make a hole in the ground, things like this, you use a
shovel.
And now a smaller version of the shovel that you use only with your hand, this is called
a spade.
A spade.
Now this is very small, like you said, and it's actually special because of its shape.
A spade has a point.
A shovel is round and a spade has a point.
And what's interesting, Marco, is it's actually very common somewhere else.
In cards.
That's right, in cards.
So cards have different shapes.
One is a heart, one is a diamond.
One of them is a spade.
So the one that's pointy, that's called a spade, and it's used for digging kind of precision
So you don't want to use a big shovel if you want to make maybe a small hole in the ground,
you would use a spade.
And now our last tool has kind of a funny spelling.
It's H-O-E, and it's pronounced hoe.
Hoe.
So again, this is a tool with a very long handle, and you use it to maybe make the ground
softer or to turn up the ground.
So when you're first starting to plant a garden, the ground is very hard, very tough, right?
And this is a really important tool for that period because you can basically turn up the
You're not digging anything, but you're mixing up the dirt a little bit to make it softer.
So that's when you use this tool.
It's kind of a dirt or a soil mixer.
You can also pull out those nasty weeds with a hoe.
So four key tools that we've just taken a look at now.
But now let's move on to two verbs that are basically very important when you're talking
about gardening and all this.
As you mentioned, you talked about mixing the soil.
And in the next line, we see that it says, I'll till the soil.
To till.
Okay, so basically this is a way of turning up that soil, but you're doing it kind of
in lines, right?
So you're mixing up the soil and making it soft.
You're preparing the soil for planting.
And so you till the soil.
Soil of course, in this case, is that dirt.
It's earth.
Right, it's earth.
So to till is to prepare it for planting.
Till the soil, that's right.
To till the soil, okay.
And what do we do after the soil has been tilled?
Well then we sow the seeds.
Okay, so seeds are baby plants basically.
And we sow the seeds.
When we sow the seeds, we're putting the seeds into the ground.
So that's basically planting the seeds.
You can say we plant the seeds or we sow the seeds.
And the opposite of sowing?
The opposite of sowing is reaping.
R-E-A-P, to reap.
So we actually have a phrase in English.
This is very, very famous, very common.
We say, you reap what you sow.
You reap what you sow, that's right.
So you basically collect what you planted and that's kind of what you do in life.
So we say if you haven't planted anything good, you're not going to reap anything good.
It's a very popular phrase.
All right, so we've covered a lot of vocab here.
Why don't we go back, listen to the dialogue again, and we'll be back with Fluency Builder.
Well, first I need to buy some things such as fertilizer, seeds, and tools.
A rake, shovel, spade, and a hoe.
Well, it seems like you have all your bases covered.
All right, we're back and we have four phrases for you on Fluency Builder and we're going
to take a look at those now.
This first phrase is useful in any conversation, I think, especially if you're trying to impress
So basically, one person in this dialogue says, you know what, you don't know the first
thing about gardening.
That means you don't know anything about gardening.
And what does he say in response?
On the contrary.
So the contrary means the opposite.
So basically this means the opposite is true.
You're basically saying, I disagree.
What you are saying is false.
It's actually the opposite.
So maybe I have a feeling, Marco, that it's going to rain tomorrow.
Actually, on the contrary, I saw in the news that it's going to be very sunny tomorrow.
Oh, well, that's good news.
So that's a way of maybe politely disagreeing with someone or saying to someone that, well,
you're wrong.
It's actually the opposite of what you're saying.
Moving on to our second phrase, it's actually a colloquial way of kind of making fun of
someone when you say, all right, then, smarty pants.
Don't think about this too much.
We're not talking about pants, actually.
But this is a way of saying, okay, if you're so smart, then tell me that.
It's sarcasm.
So this person says, oh, actually, I know a lot about gardening.
And the other person says, oh, really, smarty pants.
So you can actually describe a person in this way.
Maybe a person that thinks they know a lot or sometimes what you say, a Mr. Know-it-all.
You also say, it's a smarty pants.
A person that thinks they know a lot or everything even.
Mr. Know-it-all or a smarty pants.
And our third phrase is interesting because we have a setup here.
When the person says, how will you go about setting up your garden?
So to go about doing something.
There's two important parts of this.
So Marco, the first part is how you go about.
This means how you do.
So you can say, how will you do this?
What's your approach?
So how will you go about plus and then the verb in ing.
So how will you go about setting up your garden?
How will you start or what is your approach to creating your garden?
So maybe Marco, you want to write a book and I can ask you, well, how will you go about
starting your book?
Or if I'm writing a book, you can say, how will you go about investigating for your book?
So what is the approach you're going to take?
How will you do it?
How do you plan on, how do you plan on doing something?
And our final phrase here is a very commonly used for all sorts of situations.
Basically if a person is prepared, you say, well, you have all your bases covered.
It comes right from sports.
Very common in English to have sports phrases.
This comes from the sport baseball.
So in baseball, the field is a diamond.
There are four corners or four bases and the runners have to go from one base to the other
one, two, three, four, and then they get a point.
But in this case we're saying the other team, they have their bases covered.
That means they're protecting their bases.
And in speech we say, if you have your bases covered, like you said, Marco, you're very
So you're, you're ready, you're prepared.
You have really planned out and thought of what you're going to do.
So you have all your bases covered.
So Marco, for example, you just told me that it's going to be sunny tomorrow, but I think
it still might rain.
So to have all my bases covered, I'm going to bring an umbrella anyway.
Just in case.
Or maybe you have a presentation at work and you've prepared your PowerPoint presentation.
You have your, your drawings, your copies, you have everything ready.
You have all your bases covered for that meeting.
So why don't we go back and listen to our dialogue for the last time and we'll be back
to talk a little bit more.
Well good luck with your garden, especially considering we're in the dry season and it
So gardening is actually a very popular thing in many countries.
I know many people as well who prefer to have their own personal garden to grow their own
vegetables which they say taste a lot different from the ones you buy at the supermarket.
I think personally that home grown vegetables, so vegetables that you grow yourself, tend
to taste a lot better than the ones you get in the grocery store.
They also look different.
They're not as pretty, but that's because they have less chemicals.
I think it's a very popular thing and well not only gardening your own vegetables but
some people just enjoy it as a hobby to have some plants and different types of things
in their backyard.
Yeah, many people say it's very relaxing.
You get to go outside, you're in the sunshine, it's a very calming activity.
It seems like it's very relaxing.
A little bit boring at times.
Basically you're waiting for your plants to grow, but I imagine that once they do, you've
accomplished it, it must be great to see that you've actually brought life.
Like 20 minutes every day is not so bad.
It's actually a very interesting hobby and we want to know if in your country, in your
town, do you have enough space for a garden?
Do you like gardening or maybe growing your own food?
I think that's a very interesting topic.
Yeah, let us know what you think.
Yeah, I do.
Have a nice time.
My name is Katrin and we're shoe shopping again.
We are going shoe shopping but this time it's a little bit more complicated because we're
getting women's shoes.
So there are so many different kinds of women's shoes.
I'm not even sure I know them all myself but in this intermediate level lesson we're going
to cover some of the basics for you.
Before we jump into this dialogue we have a word that we want to preview with you today
and let's take a look at it now on Vocabulary Preview.
Okay, so we're shopping today for a certain kind of shoe.
It's not a sports shoe.
It's a dress shoe.
Okay, that kind of doesn't make sense because a dress is a noun.
A shoe is a noun and so you want to get a shoe that's a dress?
A dress shoe is a style of shoe.
It means shoes that you wear when you're wearing fancy clothes.
So it's kind of like a formal shoe.
A dress shoe is a type of shoe that would go well with a dress.
That's right, not sneakers.
But don't be fooled.
This is not about dresses because men can wear dress shoes too.
It means shoes you would wear to a conference or to a wedding or to church.
So these are things that are a little bit fancier than everyday shoes.
So we're shopping for a dress shoe and there are so many types and styles of shoes for
women so why don't we listen to our dialogue for the first time and we'll be back in a
second.
Hi, excuse me sir.
I'm looking for a dress shoe.
My usual pair that I've had for years have finally been stretched out of shape.
They don't provide any support anymore.
Sure, what kind of shoe are you looking for?
We've got strappy sandals, sleek high heels, edgy pumps.
If you're looking for something a little more practical, we've got Mary Janes, ballerinas.
Show me some classic high heels please.
Okay, right this way.
What color did you have in mind?
Black, classic.
We've got this style here that is very popular.
Because it's an open toe shoe, you can wear it any time of the year.
It'll look great on everyone.
Um, too shiny.
And I wear pantyhose with my shoes so let's look for a closed toe shoe.
Okay, these are a very nice pair of leather shoes with a two inch heel so they are very
comfortable.
I don't like the pointed toes.
Let me take a look at what else you have.
Too high.
That one looks like the back would cut into my heel.
I have a high instep so I doubt that one would fit properly.
I don't want bows.
I find slingbacks very uncomfortable.
Those might as well be stilettos.
Too modern.
Ah, finally!
This is what I'm looking for.
What size?
Seven and a half.
How does it fit?
Mmm, not good.
They're too tight.
The length is right but the shoe is too narrow and it's pinching my toes.
And there'd be no room for my insoles.
I don't think I have the patience for this today.
They just don't make shoes like they used to.
I'll come back another time.
Have a nice day, ma'am.
So a lot of shoe styles as you noticed, a lot of them are very, I don't know, I don't
even know what they are.
So why don't we try and explain them now on Language Takeaway.
So the first kind of shoe we've got here is very popular in the summer.
It's called a strappy sandal.
A strappy sandal.
So we know what a sandal is.
It's kind of like what you wear to the beach.
It's a shoe that doesn't really cover your whole foot, just the bottom.
It's very open.
And well, what about strappy?
Strappy comes from the word strap.
So strap is like a thin piece of fabric or leather that connects other pieces.
And so a strappy sandal means that it's got many of these different little straps on it,
many lines everywhere that connect it.
So it's very open.
It's made of many different thin pieces.
So we have a strappy sandal, basically a sandal with many straps.
And well, she went on to describe sleek high heels.
So this is a two-part thing here.
Sleek is an adjective which basically means really cool looking.
Or more like it's pretty and fancy.
Usually sleek things are also kind of simple, like a Jaguar is a very sleek car.
And so this is the adjective to describe the high heels.
So we have high heels.
We have high heels that are kind of fancy shoe.
Basically these are shoes that are not flat.
So the heel is very tall.
So basically this is what a lot of women wear with dresses.
Basically the heel has a piece that kind of sticks out and makes the woman look taller.
So basically it's like they're walking on the tips of their toes the entire time.
Right, and they make click, clack, click, clack.
They make that sound.
But there are different kinds of heels.
High heels obviously means that they're tall.
You can have low heels too.
Those are shorter.
But high heels, there are different kinds.
One kind is pumps.
Pumps, okay.
In the dialer we actually saw the salesman describe them as edgy pumps.
So edgy, what does edgy mean?
Edgy means cool or hip.
So young people like to wear edgy clothes, like rock and roll kind of clothes.
Not so much older people.
And pumps are a type of high heel you say, but what is the difference?
Well pumps basically are the kind of simple heel that a woman will wear with a pantsuit
or with a skirt to the office.
And so they usually have a closed toe and they're quite simple heels.
And the opposite or maybe a little bit different from pumps would be stilettos.
So stilettos are a very special kind of heel.
Stiletto.
It refers basically to the difference in the back of the shoe where you have the heel.
Because sometimes heels are kind of thick and heavy and they make the clunk, clunk sound.
And stilettos are very, very, very thin and very, very tall.
So stiletto heels.
I think it's probably easier to walk with pumps rather than stilettos, right?
Stilettos are famous for being very, very hard to walk in.
It's almost like the back of your heel is a chopstick.
I cannot imagine doing that.
So this is the classification of our high heels.
Why don't we move on now to Mary Janes.
So we've got high heels and heels.
We also have flats.
These are flat shoes.
So one important kind of flats is a Mary Jane.
Sounds a good name.
Yeah, it is a name, right?
Mary Jane.
So what type of shoe is this?
This is basically a, usually a leather shoe, but it can be different materials.
And it's round in the front and it has one strap and they're very cute.
Usually little girls wear Mary Janes, but they're pretty popular these days with older
people too.
So they're round in the front.
They are usually black and they have one little strap that goes over the top of your foot.
Mary Janes.
So we've taken a look at Mary Janes.
Now moving on to, I think it's a similar type of shoe, ballerina shoes.
Well, ballerina shoes are similar because they're flat, but that's about it.
Ballerina shoes are very, very thin.
They're very, very weak.
And usually they're pretty simple.
They're pink or white or black and they're almost like a slipper.
So they don't have the strap on top.
No, they're stretchy and you just slide them onto your foot.
It's named after dancers, ballerinas, you know, the dancers who wear pink and they put
their hair up and they spin around and they're not hard on the bottom.
They're usually quite soft and they're always flat.
So maybe these ballerina shoes, they're not the specific types of shoes for dancing if
you're a ballerina.
But maybe they're more adequate for maybe walking around the house or something.
You don't really go out hiking with ballerina shoes.
No, you don't go out hiking, but they're very popular to wear now to school or work.
And the other type of shoes that we had, actually this was really confusing to me, slingbacks.
Slingback shoes.
Well, slingbacks can be hard because they can be heels, they could be pumps, but it
basically refers to a part of the shoe.
So normal shoes, they cover the back of your foot, but slingbacks have one strap in the
So maybe if I look at my foot in a slingback, I can see part of my heel.
So slingbacks have a little strap on the back of your heel since the shoe doesn't close
in the back.
But you also have high heels and women's shoes that don't close in the back, but that you
don't have a strap in the back either, right?
Those are open shoes.
So yeah, they're open in the back, but a slingback, there's one strap that keeps your shoe on.
A lot of different types of shoes we've just taken a look at.
Why don't we go back, listen to the dialogue again, and we'll be back shortly with Fluency
Hi, excuse me, sir.
What kind of shoe are you looking for?
Show me some classic high heels, please.
Black.
Classic.
They look great on everyone.
And I wear pantyhose with my shoes, so let's look for a closed toe shoe.
These are a very nice pair of leather shoes with a two-inch heel, so they are very comfortable.
I have a high instep, so I doubt that one would fit properly.
Here we are!
Hmm, not good.
The length is right, but the shoe is too narrow and it's pinching my toes.
Alright, we're back, so now let's take a look at five key things on Fluency Builder.
Okay, well the reason we're shopping today is because the woman needs a new pair of shoes
because her old shoes can't be worn anymore.
What's wrong with them, Marco?
She said that they were stretched out of shape.
Okay, so to stretch or to be stretched out, this means that maybe they've been pulled
and worn and they're stretched so much that they don't have the original shape anymore.
So just imagine you have a new t-shirt and all of a sudden somebody takes you from your
t-shirt and pulls you really hard.
And usually what happens is this t-shirt is going to be stretched out of shape.
You pulled it so hard that it loses its original form.
So now maybe the neck is very low or the t-shirt is too long on one side.
So that's what happens when you stretch something out of shape.
So her old shoes are stretched out of shape and they don't provide support anymore.
So to provide support.
Now what kind of support is she referring to?
She's talking about foot support.
So for example, slippers are a kind of shoe basically that don't provide support.
They're very soft.
But can you walk around all day in slippers?
It doesn't help your foot.
But if you're trying to find shoes that are really good for walking, you need to find
ones that provide support.
That means that always support your foot, the bottom of your foot.
Otherwise your foot gets too tired.
Not only the bottom but it could be also your ankle.
For example, you can't really go hiking with shoes like these with sandals because obviously
you're walking around rocks and it doesn't provide support on your ankle.
Maybe you can hurt your ankle if you don't have it.
So maybe a hiking boot will provide more support.
And then the woman also mentioned that it's hard for her to find a shoe because she said
I have a high instep.
Okay so think about the foot.
You've got toes in the very front and a heel in the very back but in the middle on top
you have the instep.
So this is basically the top of your foot.
So if she has a high instep, it means that her foot is kind of thick.
Some people have thin feet.
She has kind of a thick foot.
So fitting her foot into a shoe is sometimes hard.
We're not talking about the width of the foot.
We're talking about the height.
Like how tall.
How tall it is.
From the bottom to the top of the foot.
So that's what she means by high instep.
And well they also mentioned different types of shoes.
She said she didn't want an open toe shoe.
She wanted a closed toe shoe.
So this is a really important classification for women's shoes especially.
Open toe means that the toe of the shoe, the very very front, has a hole or an opening.
So you can see the toes.
Closed toe is the opposite.
So personally in the winter time I always wear closed toed shoes because I think open
toe shoes are too cold.
Too cold.
So that's basically it.
I guess men, we don't really have this type of shoe between open toe and closed toe.
You don't really.
But heels maybe you could have an open toe.
You can have an open toe shoe or closed toed shoe.
So a lot of interesting things.
This is useful for women out there and also for boyfriends.
Maybe now you know what type of shoe your girlfriend may want.
So we're going to listen to this dialogue for the last time and we'll be back shortly.
Too shiny.
And I wear pantyhose with my shoes.
So let's look for a closed toe shoe.
These are a very nice pair of leather shoes with a two-inch heel.
So they are very comfortable.
All right, so talking about shoes, there are so many types and I think women are notoriously
famous for having a lot of shoes.
Some women are.
Some women aren't.
It depends on the person.
Part of the problem, as you said earlier, is that there are so many different kinds
of women's shoes that now we expect women to have a different pair of shoes for every
different occasion.
Work shoes, hiking shoes, running shoes, wedding shoes, summer shoes, winter shoes, fall shoes.
You need so many different kinds of shoes, you end up buying many different kinds.
I think that's true.
Also basically, women like to look nice.
That's why you do your makeup, you have earrings, and they have nice bags.
So I guess it's also part of it is that you pay more attention to what type of shoe you're
wearing that maybe goes well with the outfit.
I think maybe guys, not all guys obviously as well as not all women, but guys are a little
bit more generic.
It's like jeans pretty much go well with any type of shoe as long as it's maybe black or
brown or something like this.
Although I know a lot of guys who have many different kinds of shoes.
It takes up a lot of space in the closet as well.
Shoes are hard to carry around.
And actually I find it kind of hard to get rid of my shoes.
I think they have to be ripped or just completely unwearable in order for me to throw a shoe
away because otherwise you can still wear it sometimes on the weekend.
Although I tend to wear my shoes down.
That means I wear them until they die.
And then I throw them away.
Actually I've had shoes that I've worn the soles down and then I just get the sole changed
because I like the shoe so much.
Well, let us know.
Do you guys like to buy shoes?
Do you have a lot of shoes?
Maybe you don't have that many shoes.
We're curious to know about this in other cultures as well because I know in the States,
in the United States, shoe shopping is very, very popular.
In Holland they have traditional wooden shoes.
Those are called clogs.
Clogs.
So let us know maybe what type of shoes are also very unique to your country or culture.
We're at EnglishPod.com.
My name is Kathryn and we have a very fun lesson for you today.
We're going to talk about toys.
So we're going to actually take a look at a lot of different types of toys and we're
going to be listening to a couple of commercials.
So we've got two children who are watching TV and they're listening to a number of different
commercials.
So we're going to learn about some of these very popular products in a moment.
Let's first listen to our dialogue.
Spongebob Squarepants will be right back after these brief messages.
What's that on the horizon?
A pirate ship.
Raid villages and find buried treasure with these new pirates Lego set.
Build the ship and decide who rules the sea.
Har!
Play-Doh sparkling brights precious gem press.
Make large colorful gems for you and your friends with five special molds.
Comes with a new sparkling brights Play-Doh compound in four new colors.
Treasure chest sold separately.
Wow mommy!
Can I get that for my birthday?
Wolverine, Jean Grey, Rogue and Professor X.
Collect all four of these special edition collectible X-Men action figures and decide
the future of the mutants in our world.
I want Professor X!
The new collector's edition nursery rhymes porcelain dolls.
Little Bo Peep comes with her own shape and staff.
Her clothes are made with the finest fabrics and real Italian lace.
And her face has been hand painted by our finest artists.
Only $199.
Oh!
She's pretty!
I've never had a porcelain doll before.
I doubt mom and dad will get you that for your birthday.
She costs a pretty penny.
Plus you'd most likely break her.
What is better than a board?
What is better than one board game?
Three board games in one!
Enjoy playing chess and checkers on this side of the board.
But if you're looking for some more fun, flip it and play the classic game of sorry.
That's ingenious!
Why hasn't anyone thought of that before?
Now you can take SpongeBob SquarePants wherever you go with the new SpongeBob SquarePants
glow in the dark yo-yo.
And now, back to our show.
So a lot of great toys and actually it's very popular that while maybe you're watching cartoons,
you get a lot of these commercials that are selling you all types of toys.
Absolutely, because normally children watch cartoons and children like toys.
So it makes sense.
So why don't we take a look at six key words that we have for you on Language Takeaway.
Okay Marco, so what's the first word we're looking at here today?
Alright, we have actually a brand, a very famous type of toy.
They're called Legos.
Legos.
So Lego, Legos.
So Legos are basically little pieces that you put together to build things.
Yeah, they're like little blocks.
Okay, so when you see them, they don't look like anything.
But as a child, you get to create anything you want.
So Legos have become very famous.
They have like special types that you can recreate maybe a spaceship from Star Wars,
a pirate ship, a lot of different types now.
Okay, so the one in today's commercial is Pirate Legos.
So they're building a pirate ship.
Exactly, Legos.
Alright and the next toy that we have is also a proper noun.
It's a brand and it's called Play-Doh.
Play-Doh.
Okay, so play like playing with something, playing basketball.
But Play-Doh is...
It's like clay, right?
It's like clay, but it's made out of flour I think and you can shape it into anything
So when I was little, I used to make Play-Doh animals.
You know, you could make a ball and you make another ball and all of a sudden you have
a cow.
So it's a very soft texture type of a material that you can mold.
You can give it different shapes and that's what we call Play-Doh.
Obviously, as you say, it's safe for children.
I think it's made out of some flour.
Salt and flour.
And I think a lot of children sometimes eat this.
So it's pretty safe for kids.
So yeah, that's Play-Doh.
It's a proper noun and I guess everyone just calls it Play-Doh.
So this is the toy that we're talking about.
Now moving on, we're talking about the X-Men.
Wolverine, Jean Grey, Rogue, Professor X, and all of these come in little statues that
we call action figures.
So what you're talking about here are obviously the X-Men, Marco.
And X-Men, there are many different kinds of X-Men.
You have, like you said, Wolverine, who's maybe one of the most famous and Rogue.
But when you collect these little statues, these little dolls, they're called action
figures.
So figure is like a kind of doll.
So the X-Men is just an example.
You have action figures of all sorts of cartoons or movies.
Star Wars action figures are very popular.
Or G.I.
Joe action figures are very popular as well.
So they're little toy statues that children play with.
Moving on, now we have an adjective, a way to describe the X-Men.
X-Men, as you know, are not normal people.
They have special powers.
Some X-Men can fly.
Wolverine has animal abilities.
He can use his long claws.
So these are mutants.
That means that they were humans, but something changed in them and it makes them have these
special powers.
So a mutant is maybe a person that has special powers, like as you say, Wolverine and all
these types of X-Men.
But I guess to, taking maybe a look at the verb mutate, that means...
To change, right?
So to mutate is to change.
So we could say, I found a frog that had three legs.
So it clearly mutated because normally frogs have like four legs.
You see that sometimes with chickens that maybe have two heads or something like this.
These are mutants.
They have mutated.
So that's a mutation.
And now moving on to our dolls.
They were talking about these beautiful porcelain dolls.
So let's talk about porcelain because I think everyone knows what a doll is.
But porcelain is a special kind of doll, right?
It's a material.
And usually you can find this material very commonly in your plates.
So it's not clear.
It's not glass.
It's colored.
It's normally whitish and very, very fine, very pretty.
So you call it porcelain.
I guess it's a type of ceramic, right?
So yeah, you have porcelain dolls.
Many people also have very fine china that you call it, like dinner plates.
Or teacups.
And those are usually made of porcelain.
And finally, they were talking about a game that has three games in one.
And one of the kids said, wow, that's ingenious.
Ingenious.
Makes you sound really fluent.
So ingenious basically means clever.
It's a really good idea.
It's a very clever, good idea.
So if something is ingenious, it's just, wow, it's very creative.
For example, I have a pair of gloves, but on the fingers, sometimes I can pull a cover
over them and they turn into mittens.
I think it's ingenious.
You have gloves and mittens.
I have gloves and mittens all the time.
A lot of specific toys and particularly brands that you may or may not know.
But why don't we go back and listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back with Fluency
Raid villages and find buried treasure with this new pirate's Lego set.
Arr.
The new Play-Doh Sparkling Brights Precious Gem Press.
Comes with the new Sparkling Brights Play-Doh compound in four new colors.
Wow, mommy, can I get that for my birthday?
Wolverine, Jean Grey, Rogue, and Professor X.
The new Collector's Edition Nursery Rhymes Porcelain Dolls.
Little Bo Peep comes with her own sheep and staff.
Ooh, she's pretty.
Plus, you'd most likely break her.
But if you're looking for some more fun, flip it and play the classic game of Sorry.
Glow in the Dark Yo-Yo.
Okay, so the first phrase here in Fluency Builder is a really important one for anyone
who's buying anything because you often see this phrase on packages or you hear it in
As you saw in the Play-Doh commercial, the guy said, treasure chest sold separately.
Okay, sold separately.
That means the treasure chest is not included.
You have to buy it extra.
As you say, you usually see it in packaging as well.
Maybe you buy a toy car and at the bottom it will say, batteries sold separately.
That means there are no batteries in the box.
You have to buy batteries extra.
So that's what the phrase sold separately means.
It indicates that it's not included in the product that you are buying.
Alright now moving on again to the action figures and the dolls.
We saw this very interesting way of describing them.
For example, the action figure said, special edition collectible X-Men action figures.
Okay, special edition.
This is really important and it's very common I think with special toys or action figures
or even baseball cards.
Special edition means that they're produced specially on one occasion, at one time.
They're not always produced.
So for example, if you have like you say, baseball cards or maybe action figures.
They're produced normally but then a limited amount, a special type of the same action
figure will be produced.
So that's a special edition or also commonly known as a collector's edition.
Alright so some people collect stamps, you know stamps for letters that you send.
And I know many countries like America offer special edition or collector's edition stamps.
These are produced once and usually they mark a special occasion like the Olympics in 1996.
We had special edition stamps.
So these special edition objects are usually not used.
They're for collectors like the name says, right?
Collector's edition.
So you plan to sell them later on or you collect them for yourself.
They're not normal.
They don't really go up in value because they're very limited.
So collector's edition, special edition.
And now when they were talking about the porcelain dolls as well, it's pretty expensive, right?
Almost $200.
That's a really expensive doll.
And so one of the kids said, you know what?
I think mom and dad won't buy you that because it costs a pretty penny.
A pretty penny.
This does not mean that the penny is beautiful.
A penny is a one cent coin in the United States.
That means it's very, very low in value, the coin.
But a pretty penny is actually the opposite.
It means it's very expensive.
So how would you use this in another example?
I've always wanted to buy a Ferrari, but man, Ferraris cost a pretty penny.
So you have to add the word cost before you say pretty penny, right?
You can't say it is a pretty penny.
You have to say it costs a pretty penny or it's worth a pretty penny.
It's worth a pretty penny.
And for our last phrase, I think this one is a very good phrase because it describes
a lot of different toys that glow in the dark.
Glow in the dark toys.
So something that glows in the dark, the verb here is to glow, means that it can be seen
even when it's dark.
So for example, when I turn the lights off and I can see this yo-yo in my room, that
means it's glow in the dark.
It has light even in the dark.
So there are a lot of different toys and things like this.
Usually glow in the dark toys, they have a green glow, right?
They look green in the dark.
I used to have stars.
So they were stickers, star stickers, and I put them on my ceiling so that when I was
in bed, I could look at them and they were glow in the dark.
So when the lights were off, I still had stars.
You can still see them, right?
So yeah, glow in the dark.
It's a way of describing an item, an object that you are able to see in the dark.
So that's all we have for you on language.
So that's all we have for you on Fluency Builder.
When we go back, listen to the dialogue one last time, and we'll be back to talk some
The new Play-Doh Sparkling Brights Precious Gem Brass.
Comes with the new Sparkling Brights Play-Doh Compound in four new colors.
The new collector's edition Nursery Rhymes Porcelain Dolls.
Oh, she's pretty.
Three board games in one.
And if you're looking for some more fun, flip it and play the classic game of Sorry.
Alright so talking about toys, these are really interesting toys.
Are there any specific toys that you had when you were growing up or that you really, really
liked?
I had an amazing Brio train set.
This was when I was young and a train set is basically like Legos with trains.
So you build a track and you push the train around the track.
And so I used to have a track that was as big as the living room.
And my challenge, my goal was to use every single piece.
Which is very hard because some pieces don't fit with other pieces.
And so that was my favorite toy because I got to be very creative.
And then you would turn on the train and it would go away.
It wasn't electric.
So I had to push it myself.
What was your favorite toy?
Actually when I was growing up I used to collect little toy cars.
I had a lot of them.
Surprise!
I used to have a lot of little toy cars and I even had a little special, I don't know,
like a box for them so I could see them.
And then as time went on I got to collect the scale cars, you know the ones that are
1 to 10, 1 to 4.
Did you build them or did you buy them made?
No, usually I bought them made.
I actually tried the whole building model cars, model airplanes, but it's so hard.
Very hard.
Even adults have a hard time with that.
It's very difficult.
So I don't know what type of kid actually does that when they're growing up.
But yeah, so many toys out there.
So many people collect them, play with them.
You have childhood toys that you're very fond of.
So that's what we want to know.
What type of toy did you grow up with?
What did you like to play with when you were a kid?
Or if you have kids, what toys do your kids like?
Because we're not too familiar with toys these days.
We'd be curious to hear about those.
My name is Kathryn and today we've got an upper intermediate level lesson for you all
We are trading money.
We're actually negotiating in this very popular topic nowadays, the whole foreign exchange
market.
Okay, so we're talking about currency, which is the money of different countries.
For example, the currency of Ecuador is?
The US dollar.
Hard to believe, but true.
I'll tell you.
I'll tell you all about it later.
Well, the currency of America is also the US dollar.
So with that in mind, let's listen to today's dialogue.
Hey, John.
What have you been up to?
Pete, nice to see you.
Well, on top of the norm, you know, life and kids and work, I've actually gotten into
doing some trading.
Trading?
You a big guy?
What are you trading?
Currencies.
Currencies?
As in euros, dollars, pounds and rupees?
It's called Forex, foreign exchange.
The great thing about it is that I don't have to invest a huge amount.
I put in a margin deposit and then I can buy and sell up to a hundred times that much.
You're buying and selling money?
Just last night, I made 150 US dollars.
Last night?
That's a poor market.
I bought some RMB earlier at a low asking price, but last night it appreciated drastically.
So I made a split second decision and sold all of my RMB at an amazing bid.
I've also done some trading with Swiss francs and Australian dollars and Hong Kong dollars.
I've made some good profits, but I've also suffered some losses.
It depends on a lot of factors, just like any other market.
In total, I've made about 500 US dollars in the past few months.
You're kidding.
I'm on.
I'm going to sign up.
So this guy is trading currencies as we heard.
And well, we're going to talk about a lot of the specific vocab that he used about this
Well, the first thing I think we should talk about is, one of the first things that he
says actually, Peter says, I haven't seen you in ages.
So obviously he hasn't seen him in a long time and that's what in ages means.
So we haven't seen each other in ages.
So what other ways can we use in ages or the word ages?
Well you could actually say, it's been ages.
So that means it's been a long time.
It's been a long time or we haven't gone out for ages.
Okay, so then you can use it with for, for ages.
For ages, in ages.
So the key word here is ages which means a long time.
Long time.
And well, he hasn't seen him in ages and the guy is like, well, you know what?
I've actually gone into trading.
So that means he started doing some trading.
Now trading is a very broad word because you can trade as in this case, currencies which
is basically to buy and sell currencies.
But you could also trade stocks, right?
You can trade stocks or even people that are involved in import export.
They are involved in trading.
Trading so basically trading is buying and selling something.
So you're trading.
You are exchanging a product for money or money for a product.
But the difference is you're not actually making any products.
So that's, that's called trading.
You're not really manufacturing anything.
You're just exchanging goods and services and money.
So that's for trading.
Now moving on, he was explaining how the foreign exchange market works and he says, I don't
have to invest a huge amount.
So Marco, here's the question.
What is a margin deposit?
Because a deposit is basically money that you put, invest somewhere or that you pay
Well, basically a margin deposit is like a percentage.
So he basically puts in a percentage of what he intends to buy.
So for example, a margin deposit of a thousand dollars might be $1 or $10.
So maybe if it's $10, you're talking about a 1% margin.
So that's what he means by a margin deposit.
And that's why he explains that you don't have to have a large amount of money in order
to trade in the foreign exchange market.
You just put in a margin deposit and then you can work around that.
Well, it sounds pretty easy, but then he explains some more details about it and it gets to
be a little bit more complicated.
He explained about how he makes money and how he bought some Chinese renminbi and then
he sold it because it appreciated drastically.
So he bought it when it was cheap and he sold it when it was expensive.
So the price changed.
So when you see this kind of price change, when something goes from cheap to expensive,
it's called appreciating.
Appreciation.
So the verb is to appreciate.
It's very different from using it in the sense of you appreciate someone, right?
Like I really appreciate you.
Yeah, no, it's very different.
We could say this about most goods or investments.
For example, my parents bought a house in 1970 and the value of the house has really
appreciated over the last 40 years.
So now the value is much, much greater.
And actually just mentioning it while we're on the topic, to appreciate, as you say, is
something becomes more expensive.
The opposite when something becomes cheaper or maybe the value goes down is to depreciate.
Depreciate.
So that D at the beginning means it's going down.
And moving on to our last word for language takeaway.
So when he was talking about selling the Chinese currency, he said that he sold it at an amazing
bid.
Okay, let's talk about bid here.
B-I-D.
Bid.
So to bid is to place an offer for something.
So for example, at an auction, when someone is selling many old objects or some art, I
can bid $100.
And maybe someone doesn't accept my bid.
But if they do accept my bid, then I pay for it.
So basically a bid is just another way of saying an offer.
You're offering a certain amount of money for that product or that service.
And you see it a lot, for example, on eBay, right?
So eBay is an auction website basically.
And someone who's selling something, someone can see many, many bids and they select the
best bid.
So that's what a bid is.
So that's all we have for language takeaway.
Let's move on now to fluency builder.
Marco, what have you been up to lately?
I never see you.
This is actually a very common sentence.
But most English learners don't really understand what it means.
Well, this is a really interesting point because I say this all the time.
This is very native, very colloquial.
It's almost the same as saying what's up.
Or where have you been recently?
What have you been doing recently?
How's your life?
So this part, up to, what have you been up to?
It doesn't really say much if you translate it literally.
But basically it's what have you been doing?
What have you been spending your time on?
So to be up to means to do something, to do.
And there are many other definitions of up to, but in this case, what have you been up
to means that.
What have you been doing?
So the next time you see a friend you haven't seen in a week or two, you can say, what have
you been up to?
And John answers, well, you know, on top of the norm, wife, kids, and work.
That phrase right there, on top of the norm.
Well, the norm here means the normal.
That means basically normal life.
I've been working.
I've got my kids, my wife, on top of the norm.
Just life is normal.
So the norm are the wife, kids, and work.
On top of that, I'm actually gotten into trading.
So the normal situation, the normal life is wife, kids, and work.
And then he's saying on top of that, I've actually been doing this.
And now moving on to when he's explaining again, the market and the currencies, he talked
about an asking price.
Asking price.
This is, remember we were talking about bids.
We could say that someone has an asking price, which is the price they would like to receive
for an object or a service that they are selling.
And so for example, I'm going to sell my desk.
My asking price is a hundred bucks, a hundred dollars.
Maybe you don't want to pay that much, but my asking price is the way that I'm going
to start.
That's how much I want for it.
So that's your asking price.
That's how much you ideally want to sell it for, but you can negotiate.
You are willing to accept maybe a lower offer.
And what is our last phrase?
A split second decision.
This is really, really important.
These words go together very often.
Split second and decision.
So that basically means that you made a very quick decision.
Split second.
Very fast.
It's almost like it's less than a second.
And so a split second decision means a decision in no time.
It's very, very quick.
So we can actually mix split second with other things, right?
For example.
Maybe you can say he reacted in a split second and avoided the crash.
So good for him.
He reacted quickly enough to avoid the accident.
So split second, very fast, very quickly.
A split second decision, a decision that was made very fast.
So that's all we have for Fluency Builder.
Why don't we go back, listen to this dialogue one more time and we'll be back to talk a
Hey John, I haven't seen you in ages.
You big guy?
Just last night I made $150 US.
It's a 24 hour market.
I'd bought some RMB earlier at a low asking price, but last night it appreciated drastically.
In total I've made about $500 US in the past few months.
You're kidding!
So Marco, you have to explain this to me.
We're talking about currency today.
So every nation has a currency.
For example, in the dialogue we learned that India has rupees.
Pounds are in Britain.
Britain has pounds and Australia has Australian dollars.
America has American dollars.
But you just said earlier that Ecuador has American dollars too.
Actually, Ecuador went through a very difficult economic situation in late 1998, early 1999,
where there was hyperinflation.
So basically there was an inflation that was very, very, very large.
So that means that the old currency lost its value very fast.
So for example, if the currency before in Ecuador used to be sucres.
So if 10 sucres was $1, all of a sudden it was 50 sucres was $1.
It got to the point where goods and services went from $3,000 to $1 to $25,000 to $1.
Okay, so people have bags full of money and it's not really worth anything anymore.
So what happened was the central bank couldn't absorb this currency depreciation.
They couldn't really regulate prices.
Basically salaries were about the same, so you have a lot less money comparatively.
And so the government decided that there were two options.
Either they would follow Argentina's example, what they did a couple of years before, and
set a fixed rate.
So in Argentina, it's $3 to $1.
Or we would just get rid of our currency and just use US dollars.
So that's what they did, right?
They used US dollars.
And now if you ever travel to Ecuador, you will use US dollars.
The same exact bills that you use in the US are the same exact bills in Ecuador.
So no need to exchange currency.
No need to exchange currency.
And that's why I guess there are many factors that people say are a lot better.
For example, trading has become a lot less complicated because now you're negotiating
in US dollars as in everywhere else in the world.
But then other things, as you know, not having a national currency also affects.
So there are a lot of things going on.
But it's an interesting topic.
Well, so maybe for those of you who are listening, you could tell us about your country and your
currency.
What do you use?
What do you spend money on?
And do people buy and trade currencies where you're from?
Or maybe you can even enlighten us with the exchange rate maybe.
Usually it's a good question to ask how much is a liter of milk or how much is a haircut.
Because these are things that everyone needs.
So the price doesn't change that much.
Well, we're really curious to know how inexpensive or maybe very expensive your country is.
So come to EnglishPod.com and we'll see everyone there.
My name is Kathryn and we're talking today about health and getting sick.
We are going to visit the doctor so we're feeling a little bit ill and well, we're going
to describe some of the symptoms that we have and the doctor is going to recommend some
medicine.
Good afternoon, Chloe.
I'm Dr. Evans.
Hi, Dr. Evans.
Thanks for seeing me on such short notice.
When I woke up this morning, I had a really sore throat and a really bad cough.
I think I'm coming down with the flu.
Yes, you do sound rather croaky.
Well, let's have a look, shall we?
Would you please open your mouth and say, ah?
Your tonsils are a little swollen and red.
How are your ears?
Blocked at all?
A little, actually.
My sinuses are a little blocked up as well.
I really feel terrible.
Okay, Chloe.
Can you please breathe in and out slowly for me while I listen to your chest?
Wow, you really are all bunged up.
You don't sound too good at all.
I'm going to set you up with a bunch of antibiotics.
You will need to take these orange pills twice a day and these blue pills every evening.
You will also have to take this cough medicine three times a day after meals.
Finally, I am giving you an inhaler to use every time you feel breathless, just to clear
up your lungs.
Whoa, so many drugs.
I hate swallowing pills.
Am I able to go to work?
Absolutely not.
You are highly contagious.
You don't want to infect the rest of your co-workers, do you?
I recommend staying in bed for at least three days and drinking plenty of fluids so you
don't get weak and dehydrated.
You can catch up on all the latest TV shows and movies.
Would you mind writing me a doctor's note for work?
Otherwise, they may think I'm faking it.
Sure, no problem.
Now, off home and away to bed.
If you have any questions, just give me a call.
Feel better soon and take care.
So now let's take a look at six key words that we have prepared for you today on Language
So oftentimes in the wintertime when the air is very, very dry and maybe you have a cold,
you get this.
This is the first thing we're talking about.
We have a sore throat.
Okay, so Chloe in the dialogue says, I woke up this morning and I had a really sore throat.
So let's take a look at those two words.
We know throat is the part of your neck, right?
Connects your head to your body.
And the word sore.
Sore means it hurts.
So I could have a sore back or sore knees.
Sore is basically an adjective that describes pain.
Pain.
So you have an ache in your throat.
Chloe has a sore throat.
And well, she said that she has this sore throat and the doctor says, I see.
Croaky is a way to describe the way a person sounds, especially when they're talking and
maybe their voice I think is very deep or rough.
So usually if you have a sore throat or a very bad cough, you sound a little bit croaky.
So you're like, hey, my throat hurts a little bit.
Not a very nice way to sound.
It comes from the way that frogs croak, right?
That's the sound that frogs make.
They croak.
So yeah, sometimes when you do have a sore throat or a very bad cough, people say that
you have a frog in your throat.
So that's the word croaky.
Now moving on, if you have a sore throat, it's usually because your tonsils are swollen.
So the first word here, tonsils, these are a body part.
They're in your throat, the very back of your throat, and you usually have two of them.
Some people don't have any though.
Some people get them removed.
They're like little balls in the back of your throat.
And I don't really know what they do.
I think they pick up some, I don't know what they do.
I don't think you need them actually, because a lot of people have them taken out when they're
young.
But tonsils when they are infected or when they are swollen are very, very painful.
You can have really bad sore throats.
And it can cause fevers and stuff like that.
So some people get them removed.
And well, as we said, your tonsils are swollen.
So if they are swollen, that means they are big.
So swollen means they're bigger than normal.
And you can say this about many different things.
For example, maybe someone stepped on my toe and my toe really hurts and I looked down
and it's swollen.
That means my toe got bigger.
So this is an adjective when something is swollen.
But the verb form to say that something swells.
It gets bigger.
It gets bigger to swell.
Or the adjective, it is swollen.
And now she was talking a little bit about her sinuses.
Her sinuses are a little blocked up.
So sinuses are in your face.
You have them in your nose and under your eyes.
And when they hurt, it's actually quite painful.
And people say that sometimes their sinuses are aggravated or they have bad sinuses.
This means they're having a hard time breathing or their face is sore, their eyes are sore.
So that's sinuses.
Isn't there actually a condition that if you have blocked sinuses all the time, they call
it sinusitis.
Sinusitis.
So that's a problem that comes back again and again.
And the doctor also recommended her to rest because she is highly contagious.
So you want to stay away from people who are contagious.
This means that what disease they have or what illness they have can affect other people.
So if I have the flu, Marco, and I come to work, it's pretty contagious.
It's very likely that you will get the flu.
So a flu is very highly contagious or many other things are highly contagious.
For example, pink eye is very contagious.
But you know, cancer is not contagious.
If you have cancer, I can't get it from touching you.
So contagious.
Why don't we go back and listen to our dialogue again and we'll be back in a little bit to
talk about Fluency Builder.
Could you please open your mouth and say, ah?
OK, Chloe.
OK, I'm going to set you up with a bunch of antibiotics.
Ah, I hate swallowing pills.
Thanks doc.
So now let's take a look at four key phrases that we have prepared for you on Fluency Builder.
So, Chloe goes in to see her doctor, Dr. Evans, and she says, thanks for seeing me on such
short notice.
What's short notice?
So basically, Chloe made an appointment with the doctor very late or very suddenly.
So that's a short notice.
So, for example, it's Friday night and she needs to make an appointment for Saturday
morning.
That's pretty short notice.
That's not calling the doctor in advance.
You can say this also when you're talking to friends.
You know, I'm really sorry to cancel on such short notice, but I can't go to dinner tonight.
So I think it's very interesting, the whole structure as you see on such short notice.
So as you said, your example, I'm really sorry to cancel on such short notice.
On short notice.
On such short notice.
So moving on to our second phrase, Chloe was explaining that she doesn't feel very well
and she said, I think I'm coming down with the flu.
So let's look at this verbal phrase here, coming down with.
So you can come down with many different illnesses, but the verb here means, this is the beginning
of my illness.
So I'm starting to feel the effects.
Like you said, Marco, I'm feeling some symptoms.
So I'm starting to get sick, right?
I'm coming down with a fever.
Or I think I'm coming down with a cold.
And the doctor started to check Chloe, how she was breathing.
And I think he listened to her lungs with his, what is it called?
A stethoscope.
Stethoscope.
And he said, wow, you are really all bunged up.
So here he's basically saying that she's very congested.
That means that her breathing passageways, like in her nose and her throat and her chest,
are very stuffy.
There's things in them.
Usually mucus.
Yeah, phlegm.
Phlegm.
These are things that, you know what's in your nose when you have a cold and you have
to blow it out?
That's phlegm and mucus.
Not a very pretty thing.
Very disgusting, actually.
So maybe we should move on to our next item.
So she's all bunged up.
And clear up.
And so he recommended a couple of different medicine, such as antibiotics, some pills,
and he also gave her an inhaler to clear up her lungs.
So an inhaler is basically a device that you use to put steroids in your lungs that will
help you breathe.
So some people, when they're running or they're walking, they're very short of breath and
they can't breathe.
Well, there's a problem with this, like asthma, and they need to breathe this little inhaler.
It's like a little tube.
I think you inhale medicine from this little tube.
So the medicine helps open up your passageways.
It helps you breathe and it's very important for some people.
But in the case of an illness, like your lungs are very congested, this helps you breathe
on the short term.
So to clear up is to allow air or the movement of something within your body, usually, I
think.
But to clear up isn't necessarily about air.
It's basically a way to say that it will make this problem go away.
To clear something up is to make the problem go.
So I guess if you get medicine from a doctor, he'll say, okay, this will help you clear
up your throat.
Or if you have a problem with acne, maybe your doctor will give you some cream to help
clear up your acne, make it go away.
Clear up your skin.
So a lot of great examples there.
Why don't we go back and listen to the dialogue one last time.
Okay, I'm going to set you up with a bunch of antibiotics.
All right, so talking about illnesses and being contagious, we mentioned this pink eye
illness before.
So this is the colloquial way of saying conjunctivitis, which is, I don't know if anyone has ever
gotten it, your eye gets very, very red for a prolonged period of time.
And it itches a lot.
It itches.
And so already your eye is very red or very pink, like the name says, but you really want
to scratch it and itch it and it's really hard not to.
And I think you treat it by means of some eye drops.
And you have to wait.
I actually had a very bad case of pink eye once that I couldn't just clear up with drops.
The doctor gave me some eye drops.
They were so strong that I put them in my eye and I can taste them.
So apparently, yeah, it's very strange and it wouldn't clear up.
So then I had to get some kind of like a clear gel put in my eye and my eye patched up for
like two days.
So I was running around with one eye.
It was crazy.
I've never had it, but I know that it's very, very contagious, like we were saying earlier.
And so if a student at a school gets pink eye, all the parents get very nervous because
it's very, very likely that he or she will give it to another person.
Because, you know, kids, if you touch your eye and you touch someone else, all of a sudden
they have this disease.
So, yeah, it's very common thing.
And I think with especially with kids, they always get all these things, pink eye, measles.
They get chickenpox.
Chickenpox.
A lot of different diseases.
We actually have a lesson on chickenpox.
You guys should check that one out.
But if you have any questions, any comments or any other doubts, please come to EnglishPod.com
where we're there to answer them.
Thanks for watching EnglishPod.
Hello, everyone and welcome to EnglishPod.
My name is Katherine and today we have a very special lesson for you.
This is actually the first in a series of lessons about interview skills.
For 10 lessons that you will hear once a week for the next 10 weeks, we're going to take
a look at an interview, a job interview and we're going to take you step by step throughout
the whole interview process as well as teaching you some useful words and phrases that you
can use next time you're at a job interview in English.
So pay attention.
Today is the first day we're going to be entering the office and we're going to learn some things
that are important for talking to your future employer or meeting people in an interview.
Mr. Parsons?
Ah, you must be Rebecca.
Please do come in.
Thank you for making some time to see me, Mr. Parsons.
It's a pleasure to meet you finally.
The pleasure is all mine, Rebecca.
Have a seat, please.
Now would you like any refreshments, tea or coffee?
A coffee would be lovely.
Black, no sugar.
Sally, can we have two coffees, please?
One, no milk or sugar.
Certainly, Mr. Parsons.
So Rebecca, I understand you had a first interview with Ms. Childs last week?
She filled me in on the details of the job on the telephone.
Well, I'm glad to say she recommended you for a second interview and here we are.
Perhaps we can start by discussing your background and resume details a little.
So now let's take a look at language takeaway.
So one of the first things that you're offered when you go to interview at a company is refreshments.
Would you like any refreshments?
This sounds complicated, but it's actually a very simple word for beverages or drinks.
So that's why he offered her tea or coffee.
So refreshments are cola, coffee, tea.
But how do you answer this?
If I say, would you like any refreshments, Marco?
You can say, yes, water would be fine.
Water would be fine.
Or I'd like a Coke.
Or I'd like a cup of coffee.
Cup of coffee.
So that's how you answer drinks.
And after that, the characters are talking about the details of the job.
So what are these details?
How are they different from the job itself?
Well, the details of the job are the specific points about the job.
So for example, if she applied for a job as a receptionist, the details of the job would
be answering the phones, taking messages, receiving people at the office.
Those are the main details of the job.
Also, we need someone who works from 9am to 5pm, someone who is going to come five days
a week.
So the details are basically more information about something.
The specific information about a general topic.
And it's not only related to work.
The details can be of many, many things.
So if I ask you about your details, Marco, you could maybe tell me your phone number,
your address.
My full name.
Your full name or birthday.
So these are details.
And well, after they talked about the details of the job, after she explained that she received
the details of the job by phone, Mr. Parson said that she was recommended for a second
So Rebecca is coming to the office for a second time.
She already had one interview.
And the woman she talked to the first time recommended her for a second interview.
So the verb here is to recommend.
And you can recommend a person, an object, a movie.
And that's basically you are saying that this is good and that it's worth seeing, it's worth
buying, it's worth interviewing.
For example, I really like the movie Avatar.
Marco, I recommend you see it.
And you can say, Catherine recommended the movie Avatar.
So Catherine liked it.
Catherine decided, Catherine suggested or told Marco it would be good.
So to recommend.
And then Mr. Parson said that they're going to start discussing her background.
Well, background, think of the word back.
That means behind.
This usually means a person's history at a job or at many jobs or even their educational
background, information about where they studied.
So the background, maybe a person's background is, as you said, all their history, work,
study, many, many different things, even maybe seminars or courses that they assisted.
Or even just their personal history.
For example, Marco, you speak English like an American.
What's your background because I know you're not American.
I'm from Ecuador.
Background.
So that means someone's personal history.
And hand in hand with background, we have a piece of paper that usually you send into
an employer to apply for a job.
This is the famous resume.
Resume.
So you're right, Marco.
Resume is a document.
In this case, it is a document that lists your work history, your working background.
And it's a very important part of applying for a job.
And usually you send your resume before you go for the interview so that the employer
can look and see is this person qualified, how old are they, what's their work history.
And well, very similar to a resume, you may have heard a CV.
A CV is a lot like a resume.
It stands for curriculum C, vitae V, CV.
And it's more detailed.
It has more details about a person's academic or study history.
So a resume, I guess it's very similar to a summary, a summary of your work background.
Whereas a CV will have more details about your education, maybe more details about your
work background, what did you do, objectives, etc.
So maybe we should listen to today's dialogue one more time.
And when we come back, we'll be talking about some of the interesting phrases we heard in
today's dialogue.
Mr. Parsons.
A coffee would be lovely, thank you.
Well, I'm glad to say she recommended you for a second interview.
And here we are.
So now we have three phrases that we're going to take a look at on Fluency Builder.
Alright, so when Rebecca arrived, Mr. Parsons said, ah, you must be Rebecca.
Okay, so you could say, please come in.
This means, please come into my office or come on in.
But here, the interesting thing about this is the word do.
Right, he's using the verb do and it may sound wrong.
It may sound like it's unnecessary because you do have a phrasal verb there already,
come in.
So you can just say, please come in.
But when he says, please do come in, he is emphasizing on her to come in.
So this is a very polite way to invite someone inside.
You can also say, please do have a seat.
Alright, so again, you are emphasizing in a very polite way to please sit down.
So there are many other ways that you can use it.
So for example, if you really want your friend to call you sometime next time you're in town,
say please do call me next time you're in town.
Please do.
You could even say it afterwards, simply please do for emphasis.
So if I say, hey, Catherine, I'm going to call you next time I'm in Shanghai.
So that means, please do call.
Alright, so please do come in.
Please do call.
After that, Rebecca says, thank you for making some time to see me, Mr. Parsons.
So she is happy that Mr. Parsons is available and wants to talk to her.
This is a very common phrase that means, thank you so much for interviewing me.
So I guess it's kind of a way of saying, look, I know that you're a busy person and that
you don't have very much time.
So thank you for making some time to see me.
So this isn't just about interviews.
You could say this phrase for meeting with a client or meeting with even a friend.
You could say, hey, Marco, I know you were really busy last week, but thank you so much
for making some time to see me.
So it's just basically saying, I understand that you're very busy, but I appreciate that
you made some time to see me.
Mm hmm.
And well, she said, you know what?
It's a pleasure to meet you, but Mr. Parsons replied by saying, the pleasure is all mine.
Another very, very polite phrase that you hear a lot.
Maybe some of you have heard the phrase, it's a pleasure to meet you before, but the response,
the answer is very interesting.
The pleasure is all mine.
So this stands for the pleasure is all mine.
And I guess it's the most appropriate response if somebody says, it's a pleasure to meet
you, because if you don't say this, I think you may sound a little bit arrogant.
Well, you could say it's a pleasure to meet you too.
But this is another way to answer the person because you don't always want to say it's
a pleasure to meet you.
It's a pleasure to meet you too.
This is a way to say something different and to say, well, the pleasure is all mine.
But it's very important to answer something, right?
Because if I say, it's a pleasure to meet you and you say, thank you.
It's like, no, that is a little bit arrogant.
You have to say something.
And we recommend that you say this or you just say the same thing back.
So it's nice to meet you.
Oh, it's nice to meet you too.
And our last phrase is actually when they were talking about, again, the details of
And she said that Miss Childs filled her in on the details.
She said, she filled me in on the details of the job on the telephone.
So this is an interesting verb, to fill in, or in this case, to fill someone in, to fill
me in, to fill you in.
This basically means to tell someone about something.
Or if I know a little bit of information, but not a lot of information about something,
this way you're telling me more so I understand it better.
I'm giving you all the information.
So maybe there is somebody is talking about a rumor in the office and you go and you say,
hey, fill me in on the gossip.
So you want to know all about it.
So you go, we're having a party next Sunday, but I'll have to fill you in on the details
around Friday.
Because you don't have all the information right now.
I don't know yet what time or where.
So to fill someone in is to give them all the information or to give them more information.
Why don't we take a look at our dialogue for the last time and we'll be back in a little
It's a pleasure to meet you.
Finally, the pleasure is all mine.
Rebecca, have a seat, please.
Alright, so as we mentioned, this is the first part of a ten-part series of the interview
series and this is going to be very, very helpful.
As you saw in this first part, we're just taking a look at some basic vocab and phrases
that you can use when you're just introducing yourself, you're just getting started in the
So, what we're going to be looking at later on is talking about yourself, answering questions,
but many people don't realize that one of the most important parts of the interview
is the very, very beginning because some psychologists say that we make a decision about a person
or how we like a person within the first, I think, what, 30 seconds of talking to them?
I think so, yeah.
So, it's important that you speak confidently and that you speak, say some of these English
phrases comfortably.
Oh, it's the pleasure is mine.
These little things will really help you.
And I think as talking about introductions and how this woman arrived to the office,
I think one of the key things that we would recommend is to look that person in the eye
and give a firm handshake.
I don't know how many people actually realize how important this is.
It's very, very important because as an interviewer, the person or the manager who's interviewing
you, I think you can tell a lot from a person if somebody gives you a very flimsy handshake
or doesn't look you in the eye.
Well, I think in many ways people think, oh, this person is not confident or this person
is uncomfortable or this person is hiding something.
And so, it's important really to be yourself, to smile, to look at a person in the eyes,
especially in a lot of like American companies or Canadian companies.
I know in other parts of the world, smiling with a stranger is unusual or maybe unacceptable,
but in America it means I'm confident.
Here I am.
Here's my name.
It's a very important part of an introduction.
Yes, very true.
So we actually want to hear what you think.
How important for you is a handshake, a firm handshake, looking someone in the eye or how
do interviews work in your country?
Let us know and we hope that this is helpful for you in the future if you're looking for
jobs or you just want to practice your English.
So, if you have any other questions or doubts, we're at EnglishPod.com.
My name is Catherine and today we're talking a little bit about going to sleep or not being
able to sleep.
We are having some sleeping problems and we're actually going to check out a couple of words
related to this topic right now on Vocabulary Preview.
Okay, so the first word is actually the technical word that describes being unable to sleep.
It's called insomnia.
So if you have insomnia, it means that you can't fall asleep.
You can't sleep.
So this is a pretty serious condition.
For example, if you have insomnia and you don't sleep for three or four nights, you're
not going to do very well at work, right?
Or if you're studying, you're tired at school, you can't concentrate.
So it's a very big problem.
What's that other word though?
We have insomnia, but we also have another interesting disorder.
If somebody is able to sleep but walks while they're sleeping, that person is called a
sleepwalker.
And you don't actually just have to walk to be a sleepwalker.
You can do any number of strange things like basically acting like you're awake when you're
not.
So some people get up and walk, actually go outside.
Some people get dressed.
Some people go downstairs and cook.
And the worst is the people who eat because they gain weight and they don't know why.
So sleepwalking is what you do.
And if you do this, you're called a sleepwalker.
Sleepwalk is the verb.
Sleepwalker is the noun or the person.
So we've taken a look at two words that we're going to find in our dialogue today.
Why don't we go now and listen to the dialogue for the first time.
Alex, what's up with you?
You look dreadful.
Hey, Jill.
I've been having trouble sleeping these past few weeks.
I usually lie in bed for hours trying to get to sleep.
I've tried stretching and different breathing techniques before going to bed.
I've tried eating and not eating different foods.
I've even tried counting sheep.
And then when I finally get to sleep, I have these really disturbing nightmares.
So I usually wake up in a panic and more tired than before I went to sleep.
Maybe you should get that checked out.
Maybe you're stressed.
Just take some sedatives.
Works for me.
Every so often having some melatonin on hand helps me when I have trouble sleeping.
It works on all kinds of sleeping disorders.
It's the stuff pilots use to regulate their sleeping patterns.
I heard of that.
But does that apply to Alex's situation?
Sounds like he only has transient insomnia since it's a recent thing so taking melatonin
should do the trick.
But shouldn't he be looking into why it's been happening?
Well, aren't you the little psychologist?
Our buddy's having trouble sleeping.
It's easy and curable.
It's not something freakish like if he was a sleepwalker.
Well, there's that too.
So obviously this person not only has insomnia but also has nightmares, sleepwalks, a mess.
And you can tell when someone hasn't been sleeping well.
They have that look like there's bags under their eyes or they just look really tired.
And so the friend here says, Alex, you look dreadful.
That's right, dreadful.
So this is an adjective and it's a way to describe someone that looks terrible.
You look horrible.
You look tired.
You look sleepy.
So this is not a compliment.
This is something that you say when you're worried about someone.
So for example, if someone's really, really tired, you say, you look dreadful.
Or if someone is wearing very dirty clothes, they don't look like they went home yesterday,
you say, what's wrong?
I think you can also use it to describe objects or maybe food, right?
This lasagna is dreadful.
It means it's very bad.
And you don't want to say that to the person who cooked it, of course.
Alright, so the person obviously because is suffering from insomnia looks dreadful.
And he was explaining what he does to try to fall asleep.
For example, counting sheep, stretching, and he also said that he tried different breathing
techniques.
Okay, so basically a technique is an approach to something, a kind of method.
But in this case, we're talking about breathing techniques.
So for some people, one breathing technique is breathing in through your nose and breathing
out through your mouth.
That's one kind of technique.
So a technique, as you say, is a way of doing something.
So breathing techniques are different ways of breathing.
So maybe you will relax, so maybe you'll fall asleep, things like this.
It's one of those things that you might learn about in a yoga class, for example.
There's different breathing techniques.
And you can combine techniques with other words as well, adding the ing.
For example, you have walking techniques, maybe to put less stress on your knees.
Or running techniques, swimming techniques.
I think there's a technique for almost everything.
Just about anything you can do, there's a technique for it.
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
And well, moving on, he was talking about his nightmares and he described his nightmares
as disturbing.
He has disturbing nightmares.
Okay, well, I think this is an important word to cover here, Marco, because we've heard
the verb to disturb before.
Like I'm sorry to disturb you.
It means I'm sorry to bother you.
But disturbing is an adjective.
It describes something that makes me very uncomfortable.
So, for example, a lot of times in the news, we see very disturbing images, car accidents
or fires or bombs.
And what's disturbing is when you see human beings who have been hurt.
So images that make you really uncomfortable or sad, these are disturbing.
So disturbing nightmares are nightmares that are not very pleasant.
They make him scared, maybe, or uncomfortable.
Like a dream, for example, where your parents die.
It's pretty disturbing.
And well, one of his friends recommended, you know what?
Stop with all of this.
So sedatives are a kind of medicine that help a person relax or that help make a person
tired.
So I think it comes from the verb to sedate.
And basically that is to calm down, to tranquilize.
So in this case, we're talking about a person, but you can also give an animal sedatives.
For example, if you want to take your dog on an airplane, the dog needs to relax.
You give it some sedatives.
And I think when he mentioned a specific name of a sedative, it's melatonin.
So melatonin, melatonin is a chemical that our bodies naturally produce that help calm
us down.
And so a lot of pharmaceutical companies or drug companies sell melatonin in a pill form.
It's basically, it's a chemical that helps you relax.
So obviously if you take melatonin, you're going to feel sleepy or you're going to be
very relaxed and you're going to fall asleep a lot easier.
Well, hopefully.
Hopefully.
So, and well, the whole thing that we've been talking about, insomnia, sleepwalking, these
are called sleeping disorders.
And remember, you might also hear the term sleep disorders.
They mean problems with sleeping.
So people who either cannot fall asleep or people who have bad dreams or people who sleep
walk.
So a disorder is something of an illness or a condition that is not normal.
So for example, as you said, a sleeping disorder or a sleep disorder, it means that you're
not able to sleep properly or normally.
But there are other kinds of disorders, right?
And many people have heard of eating disorders.
So that's basically people who do not eat like everyone else.
So that's what happens with a disorder.
So we've taken a look at a lot of vocab.
Now it's time for us to take a look at Fluency Builder.
But before that, why don't we listen to the dialogue again?
Sounds like he only has transient insomnia since it's a recent thing.
So taking melatonin should do the trick.
So now we have three main phrases for Fluency Builder.
So you heard in today's dialogue an interesting phrase.
I don't know if it exists in other languages, but in English we say when you're trying to
fall asleep, there's a good technique to help you do so.
You count sheep.
Yeah, I think you see it in cartoons all the time.
A person is sleeping and over that cartoon's head is a little cloud and you see sheep jumping
over a fence, right?
So yeah, basically there's a fence and you say one, two, three, and the process of counting
helps relax a person.
And you fall asleep.
So counting sheep, I guess you're not literally out in a field counting sheep.
You're just imagining sheep in your head and you're trying to fall asleep.
Counting sheep.
And well, one of his friends recommended that maybe he should go to a doctor.
And Jill said that by saying, maybe you should get that checked out.
So to get something checked out, to get it checked out, this means to have a professional
give you a suggestion or to have a professional look at something.
So maybe you should get examined.
Maybe you should go to the doctor.
This isn't just about disorders, right?
I mean, what if I have a sore tooth?
I could say this.
So if you have a toothache, I would recommend, maybe you should get that checked out by my
dentist.
Or maybe if you have a bad rash, you know, your skin is very red.
I say, Marco, I think you should get that checked out by a doctor.
So to get something checked, to get something examined by a doctor or a professional.
And the last phrase that we have for you.
So last phrase we have today comes from a suggestion at the end.
The friend suggests taking melatonin.
And he says, listen, taking melatonin should do the trick.
So if you end the phrase by saying, that should do the trick.
Basically you're saying that should solve your problem, that should help you.
So the trick, you don't have to think about what the trick is.
It's just a way of saying it should fix your problem.
So for example, when someone is fixing my car and they have one more thing to do and
it's finished, he says, the car mechanic might say, that should do the trick.
That means problem solved.
Or maybe you're having, you want to hang a picture on your wall.
So somebody puts a nail in the wall and that should do the trick and maybe that'll hold
up the painting.
Done.
So that's a way of saying, that should solve the problem.
This should be the solution.
That should be all.
Hey Jill.
I think you should get that checked out.
So talking about dreaming, nightmares, insomnia, all of this, what do you do if you can't fall
asleep?
I don't really have this problem personally because I could fall asleep anywhere, anytime.
I've heard some people take like warm milk before going to sleep.
Some people take milk, although I also heard that dairy products before bedtime can make
you have nightmares.
Like if you eat cheese before bed.
I've heard that as well.
I've heard that if you have seafood before bed, you'll have nightmares as well.
But actually, have you ever had a dream when you are doing something and you wake up in
the middle of that?
I remember once I was dreaming, I was drinking a soda and all of a sudden I woke up and I
had my hand like in the air, like doing the action of me actually drinking the soda.
Actually sometimes this happens to me when I'm falling asleep.
I imagine I'm on a bike or something and I start to feel myself moving my legs and I
wake up and I'm like, wait, wait, what am I doing?
So the brain is very strange, I think, especially in those times when you're kind of asleep
and you're kind of awake.
Also when you wake up suddenly, I don't know if other people have experienced this, but
you feel like you're falling or something, all of a sudden you just wake up with a shake.
Yeah, your body moves.
Yeah, it's really scary.
Your heart starts to beat.
I don't know why that happens.
It's unusual.
Well, we're curious to know what your sleep habits are.
Do you have a hard time sleeping or are you like me?
It's very easy for you to fall asleep.
Let us know at our website, EnglishPod.com.
My name is Catherine and today we've got a very special lesson for you all about time.
We're going to concentrate a little bit on some specific points of grammar this time
and we're going to talk about the morning routine, what you do in the mornings.
Well, let's take a look first at the word routine.
This is our vocabulary preview for today.
Alright so a routine or the morning routine.
What is a routine?
A routine is basically your habit for a certain period of time.
So for example, your routine in the morning is what you do when you wake up.
Get breakfast and go to work.
You can also have an evening routine.
It's what you always do before you go to bed.
Everyone has a routine, what they do in the mornings, maybe what you do at night before
going to bed.
You can also have an exercise routine.
So basically anything with steps.
One, two, three, four, five, that you always do the same way.
That's a routine.
So that's what we're going to take a look at today.
Let's actually jump right into our dialogue and listen to Stephanie's routine.
Stephanie did you just get to school?
But you were up and about when I left the dorm this morning.
That was about an hour and a half ago.
This happens all the time.
Why do you always take so long to get ready in the mornings?
It's a skill.
What can I say?
I just have a long routine.
Please explain because it makes no sense to me.
How can a girl's routine be so complicated?
You get up, you shower, you get dressed, you brush your teeth, you're out the door.
Half an hour tops.
Jacob, you have the luxury of having a haircut that rarely needs styling.
I have to set aside about an hour and a half to get ready in the mornings.
Every day I wake up and head straight for the shower.
Every second day I wash my hair.
If it's a hair washing day, I frequently need to wash my hair twice because it gets really
oily.
Then, I usually put in a conditioner and have to rinse that out too.
Because my hair is so long, I seldom manage to take a shower in under 20 minutes.
Afterwards, I often put on a pot of coffee and get dressed while I wait for it to brew.
I take a long time to get dressed in the morning.
Every now and then I remember to choose my outfit the night before, but usually I do
it in the morning.
In all, getting dressed takes about half an hour, at which time my hair is now semi-dry
so then I have to style my hair.
From time to time I'll put my hair up, but oftentimes I blow dry it straight.
And then, because of the texture of my hair, I regularly have to flat iron it to keep it
from frizzing.
That's another 20 minutes or so.
After that, I have my daily makeup routine.
True, I hardly ever see you without your hair done and your makeup on, even when you show
up to class in sweatpants.
Tell me, how long does it take you to choose that outfit in the morning?
Not funny.
So obviously she has a very complicated routine.
I don't know if all girls are like this.
I'm not like this, but I think a lot of girls, and some guys are.
I don't want to be sexist here.
I know some guys who take their time in the morning and are very, very particular about
the way that they look.
So, obviously everyone has their morning routine in different ways.
And it was interesting to see how she described it.
So why don't we take a look at Language Takeaway.
So today's Language Takeaway, like I said at the beginning of the podcast, is all about
So we're going to look at some of these important time adverbs.
These are called adverbs of frequency.
And basically, they are telling us how we do things.
If we do something all the time or if we never do something.
Or everything in between.
So the first couple we have today are very, very common words.
You're going to hear these a lot.
The first one is frequently.
Okay, frequently.
So, if you do something frequently, consider it to be about 75% of the time.
Maybe a little bit more, almost 85% of the time.
So it's not always, but it's very often.
So for example, so I frequently forget to take my keys when I'm leaving the house, which
is a very big problem.
So considering out of seven days, maybe you forget your keys five days.
Not so good.
So that's frequently.
Now let's move on to another one that's actually a lot less.
We talk about seldom.
Well, Marco has told me that he seldom forgets his keys.
That means he almost always remembers them.
So seldom is a negative adverb.
It's saying that almost never.
So if I say, for example, I seldom go to the movies.
I like the movies.
Well, that means that I maybe go to the movie theater once a month.
Not very often.
Seldom.
Now going back to a positive adverb of frequency, we have often.
You described frequently as very often.
You can also say, I often forget my keys or it often rains in tropical places.
This means this is a common thing.
So again, let's consider it to be about 70 to 80% of the time.
Now with pronunciation, some people like to pronounce often, right?
They kind of leave out the strong T sound.
Well, other people say often.
Both forms are correct, right?
Yes, they're both correct.
So you're safe using either of these.
And our third adverb of frequency, no, our fourth.
And our fourth adverb of frequency is also a positive one and we say usually.
Usually means this is something that you do pretty consistently.
I usually brush my hair before I go to sleep.
That means not always, but almost every day.
So let's consider out of seven days, you do it six times.
I usually do this.
So usually is again, very, very common.
And something in between maybe 60% of the time, 50% of the time we say regularly.
Well, I think of the word regularly as being very closely related to regular.
So basically if I have a schedule, I do the same thing every day.
I do it regularly.
But sometimes there's a special occasion.
For example, I regularly run five kilometers after work when I go to the gym.
But sometimes when I want to go out with my friends, I don't run.
So it's not always, but it is pretty regular.
So regularly means you do it very often, but there are some exceptions.
Now those are adverbs of frequency, but we have a couple of other phrases that are very
similar so we want to take a look at those as well.
Let's go back to the beginning of Stephanie's routine when she said that every day I wake
So every day means 100% of the time every single day.
Monday to Sunday.
So obviously you wake up every day.
Or I brush my teeth twice every day.
So that's 100% of the time.
Now if we say every second day, what does that mean?
That means Monday yes, Tuesday no, Wednesday yes, Thursday no, or any day.
So basically she says I wash my hair every second day.
That means one day I wash my hair, but the next day I don't.
The day after that though, I wash it again.
Every second day.
So you can say every second day and I think you can also say every other day.
Every other day.
So every other day or every second day.
He calls his mother every other day.
And she also said that every now and then I remember to choose my outfit.
Well, this one's interesting.
This is not very frequent.
This is basically saying sometimes.
So now and then.
Every now and then means I sometimes do it, I sometimes don't do it.
Every now and then I really want to eat chocolate so I buy a candy bar.
So basically you want to eat chocolate twice in a month.
Yeah, not very often.
And another one that's very similar is from time to time.
So Marco said that he doesn't go to the movies very frequently.
So he goes from time to time.
So I can say I seldom go to the movies or I can say I like to go to the movies from
time to time.
Or this girl is describing her appearance.
She says from time to time I put my hair up.
So that means most of the time.
That means sometimes it's down.
Sometimes it's up.
So as you can see there are many different ways of describing the frequency or how many
times you do certain actions or your routine.
So you can use this with a lot of things when you're describing.
And we encourage you to try some of these new ones because a lot of English learners
use the same time adverbs whenever they speak.
So try and really use some of these and challenge yourself.
All right so that's all we have for language takeaway.
Okay so using some of these adverbs I could say I can say I regularly make a pot of coffee
in the morning.
So a pot of coffee.
You regularly make a pot of coffee.
That means you like to drink coffee every day.
I always need my cup of coffee in the morning.
So I usually make it first thing.
We know what a cup of coffee is.
But a pot of coffee.
What is a pot?
A pot is basically the container that you use when you brew coffee when you make it.
So you put the coffee beans in the machine and instead of having a cup underneath you
have a bigger container that's a pot.
You can also have a pot of tea.
It's many cups.
Usually eight or ten cups.
So what is that verb?
To brew coffee.
I think it's a very nice kind of fancy way of saying making coffee.
Brew a pot of coffee.
I'm brewing some coffee.
So apart from coffee and all of these things, let's take a look at some of the specific
phrases that she used when she was talking about her hair because I think her hair is
very complicated.
It is very complicated.
Sometimes she washes her hair.
Sometimes she doesn't wash her hair.
Sometimes she blow dries it straight.
Okay, so to blow dry means that you use a blow dryer.
This is a machine that uses electricity to blow hot air on your hair so that your hair
will dry quickly.
But you can blow dry your hair in many ways.
Some people have curly hair and they have special tools for making their hair curly.
But she says she blow dries it straight.
That means she makes it straight with hot air.
So I think the way you do this is you take the blow dryer and a brush and you brush while
you blow dry, right?
Making lines.
See, I know a little bit about this even though I don't have long enough hair for this.
No, I guess.
Well, maybe you are secretly one of those guys who has a routine like this woman.
I don't think I can take this much time in the shower and brushing my hair.
But moving on, actually, I also know this next phrase, to flat iron your hair.
Okay, so flat iron is a noun and a verb.
So I use a flat iron or I can flat iron my hair.
This is a tool that we use that's very, very hot.
Think of an iron.
It's very, very hot and it basically presses my hair and makes it very, very, very thin
and flat and straight.
So I think people that have straight hair don't need to really flat iron their hair.
Nah, but if you have very curly hair, then you need it.
So what's the difference?
Give us the insight here.
Why wouldn't you just blow dry it straight?
Why do you need to flat iron it?
Because a flat iron makes it more flat.
It makes your hair stick together more and it's much, much, much hotter than a blow dryer.
So I guess if you use a blow dryer, then you have puffy hair or like the next word that
she described, frizzy hair.
Okay, so the adjective to describe this kind of hair is frizzy.
For example, when it's very rainy, my hair is frizzy.
That means that it sticks out.
It's very thick and not straight.
It's not curly, but it's messy.
It kind of inflates.
It's like a little balloon.
But the verb here is to frizz.
So my hair is frizzing.
And that means that it's getting like this, bigger or inflated.
So girls who have this problem have it worse during very humid or rainy days.
Not so bad when it's dry.
Okay, so I actually have a little bit of frizzy hair.
That's why I have to use some sort of hair gel or mousse.
See, it's not because I'm vain.
It's just because if I don't use this, I'll come in looking like a lion.
I think I might have to insist that that happens sometime soon.
We can take a picture and put it on our website, EnglishBot.com.
All right, so why don't we go back and listen to the dialogue one last time.
Stephanie, did you just get to school?
Every day, I wake up and head straight for the shower.
Every second day, I wash my hair.
Every now and then, I remember to choose my outfit the night before, but usually, I do
In all, getting dressed takes about half an hour, at which time my hair is now semi-dry,
From time to time, I'll put my hair up, but oftentimes, I blow-dry it straight.
I hardly ever see you without your hair done and your makeup on, even when you show up
to class in sweatpants.
Alright, so actually talking about morning routines, and we've given you so many tools,
I think it would be a great idea if our users came to our site, EnglishPod.com, and posted
a part of their morning routine, trying to use as many adverbs of frequency as possible.
That's a great suggestion, and to get you all started, I could give you a little bit
of my routine.
Alright, let's hear it.
Every morning when I wake up, I turn off the alarm, which is very loud, and I take a shower.
I always brush my teeth, and I usually brew a pot of coffee, although sometimes I don't
have time to brew my coffee, and I wait until I arrive at my office.
I seldom choose the clothes I will wear the night before.
I almost always choose them in the morning, and generally I ride my bike to work, but
not always.
Okay, I think in the winter you seldom ride your bike to work.
Every once in a while I ride it.
Alright, see?
You have a perfect example there of more or less what we expect, but also it would be
interesting to see if you have any other type of routine.
I know some people wake up in the morning, and the first thing they do, they always walk
their dog, for example.
Oh, that's very nice.
Other people are very hungry, so they almost always eat right when they wake up.
I eat before I brush my teeth.
Smart, actually.
Yeah, alright, so we want to hear from you guys.
My name is Catherine and today we're bringing you another elementary level lesson as a part
of our interview series.
This is part two of the interview series and the last part we talked about, well, a brief
introduction when you arrive to a job interview.
But on this occasion, we're going to talk a little bit about yourself and your life.
That's the most personal part, I think, of an interview.
Let's take a listen to today's dialogue and we'll be back in a moment to talk more about
the things that you've heard.
Now, Miss Childs passed on your resume to me and I've had a chance to look it over.
I must say I'm quite impressed.
I've tried to keep it short and clear.
If there are any questions, please feel free to ask me.
Well, yes, I do have a number of questions, but perhaps first you could give me a brief
overview.
I'd like to get a little bit of an idea of your background.
Well, as you can see from the resume, I'm 27 and grew up in Brooklyn, New York, although
our family moved to London when I was quite young at around 16.
Ah, I see.
So you were actually educated in Europe.
Yes, precisely.
Although I was born in the US, I would definitely call London home.
But as you see, I've actually spent a lot of my life moving from country to country.
My father was in the oil business before he retired, so we also spent a number of years
in Saudi Arabia, too.
So it seems you had quite an adventurous childhood.
We were never still for too long, but now I'm really looking to settle down.
Well, let's move on to discuss your education, shall we?
So obviously this person had a very interesting life and they use some pretty interesting
words there.
So why don't we take a look at five key words that we have prepared for you on Language
Alright, so the first word that we have is right when Mr. Parsons talked to Miss Childs
and he said that he was very impressed with her resume.
Alright, so someone says I'm impressed when they think that something that you did or
something about you is very interesting or good or better than most people's.
So you're kind of amazed, you're kind of, you're like, wow.
And so this is an adjective.
I am impressed.
So teachers sometimes say this.
Maybe when you do really, really, really well on a test, they say, hey, Marco, I'm really
impressed.
You got 99%.
Parents say this to friends, family.
So basically this is a way to say good job.
And there's also a verb.
So this is the adjective to be impressed and the verb form would be to impress someone.
So that's obviously if you impress your teacher by studying, your teacher will be impressed.
And following that, Mr. Parson has some questions about Miss Child's background.
He asked her for a brief overview of her background.
So we have two interesting words there.
An overview.
What is an overview?
An overview is like a summary.
It's basically a way to ask for someone to give you a lot of information in very few
So you don't really want too much details.
You don't want somebody to tell you their life in detail.
You just want a brief summary.
So not, I was born on August 11th in 1979 and I was and then I went into this.
No, this is basic, simple, you know, this is where I'm from.
This is where I went to school at the end.
And well, he wanted a brief overview of her background.
What exactly is her background?
Well think about the word back.
That means behind or in this case, background is your personal history.
So you could ask someone, what's your background?
It means where are you from or you know, what have you been doing up to now in your life?
And precisely when he asked her about her background, now she's starting to talk about
her life in general terms.
As we said, it's an overview.
So she said that she's 27 and she's from Brooklyn, etc.
So she starts giving very general information about herself and her life.
And when she starts to do this, Mr. Parson has more specific questions about her life
because he wants to know details.
So he asks her then where she was educated.
So this this phrase to be educated is very important.
So he's asking her, you studied in Europe.
To be educated means to have someone teach you or to go to school somewhere.
So for example, I was educated in America.
Where were you educated, Marco?
I was educated in Chile.
So you've been educated in a number of different places, right?
At home and in a different country.
But you can also specify the university name, right?
For example, I was educated at Harvard.
Can you say that?
Or I was educated at a number of different schools.
So you can say I studied or I was educated.
And well, apparently she was moving around from Europe, United States.
So Mr. Parson says, wow, it seems that you had an adventurous childhood.
This is a great adjective, adventurous.
You can say a person is adventurous.
So Marco is very adventurous.
He likes to jump out of airplanes.
But you can also say that an experience is adventurous, like moving around a lot as a
So I guess adventurous can go hand in hand with exciting or very interesting, full of
emotion.
So adventure, adventurous.
So a person can be adventurous.
And we actually had a lesson about this when we describe personalities.
You can say someone is adventurous.
So five key words that we just took a look at.
Why don't we go back, listen to the dialogue again, and we'll be back to talk a little
bit more on Fluency Builder.
Now Miss Childs passed on your resume to me and I've had a chance to look it over.
Well, as you can see from the resume, I'm 27 and grew up in Brooklyn, New York.
Although our family moved to London when I was quite young.
At around 16.
My father was in the oil business before he retired.
So we also spent a number of years in Saudi Arabia too.
We were never still for too long.
But now I'm really looking to settle down.
Okay, well, let's move on to discuss your education, shall we?
So we have four phrases for you on Fluency Builder prepared.
And let's start on with the first one.
Okay, so the very beginning, Mr. Parsons is continuing what he was saying in our first
part.
So Mr. Parsons is talking about Rebecca's resume and he says, someone, the secretary,
she passed it on to me.
So this verb, to pass on, this is really important.
Well, the secretary, Ms. Childs, passed on Rebecca's resume.
That basically means she, Ms. Childs received it and she didn't keep it.
She passed it on or she gave it to another person.
In this case, Mr. Parsons.
Okay, so this implies, this shows that something doesn't stay with one person, like you said,
Marco, but it moves from one person to another person.
So for example, my mother told me to pass this message on to you.
The message is not for me, it's for you.
I think also with physical traits, like maybe if your mother had green eyes, you can maybe
say my mom passed on her eye color on to me.
So, you got it from her.
Alright, so that's what happened with the resume and he said, well, she passed it on
and I've had the chance to look it over.
Okay, so think about this as a chunk, as a group of words that we use together to look
something over.
We can say, hey, Marco, when you have a minute, can you look this over for me?
Okay, so that means to examine or to take a look.
Take a look at, that's right.
So to look something over or to look it over.
Alright, so basically to examine, maybe in close detail, right?
You actually take the time to read it.
And then later on, they started talking about her background.
As we know, she was from Brooklyn, she grew up in Brooklyn and then she moved to London.
And so Rebecca described how she spent most of her life moving from country to country.
Okay, from country to country.
This means that she moved to many different countries.
Okay, so if I live in America all my life, I never moved from country to country.
You can say this about many different things, from place to place, from town to town.
It means that you live in one, you go from one place to another.
So as you said, if you replace the noun country, you can say from town to town.
You can even say from house to house.
I went from house to house asking for money.
So from to.
So from something to something.
And for our final phrase, she was talking about how she's moved around so much that
she's actually ready to settle down.
Okay, to settle down.
This is a really important phrase and I think it's something a lot of people do when they're
maybe in their 30s or 40s.
They don't want to move anymore.
So to settle down means to stay in one place.
So you stay in one place.
And it can have a lot of different meanings as well.
For example, to get married, many people say that's settling down.
It means you want to stay in one place and have a family.
Or to buy a house because it means that you will live there for a long time.
So to settle down.
So a lot of interesting phrases there, a lot of words and this is, as we said, part two
of our series.
So I think it would be worthy for us to listen to this dialogue one last time and we'll be
back to talk a little bit more.
in Saudi Arabia too.
So this is part two of a 10-part series of the interviews.
Now we just talked about the background, and I think there are different ways of talking
about your background, right?
This is maybe your personal background.
So you can talk about your personal history, your personal background, where you were born,
where you were educated, where you grew up.
But a lot of times we also have to talk about other parts of our background, like our work
background or like next week, our educational background.
So part three, we're going to take a look at your educational background.
And it's going to be very important because I think in many interviews, people have a
hard time describing what they studied or maybe describing exactly what they did during
university or college or master's degree or something.
And we're not talking about elementary school or high school.
We're specifically talking about university background here.
So like you're saying, Marco, what was your major?
What was your minor?
What was your area of study?
These are great, great, great phrases that are very important for an interview.
And so we hope that if you have any questions, you'll let us know.
Our website is EnglishPod.com and stay tuned for next week's episode.
So we'll see everyone on the website and until next time.
Thanks everyone.
My name is Catherine and today we're talking about sports and outdoor activities.
We are taking a look at a lot of different adventure sports.
So they're not just regular sports like tennis or soccer.
These are more dangerous sports.
So adventure sports is the topic.
This is intermediate level.
Let's check out the dialogue and we'll be back in a moment.
Welcome to Adventure Tours.
I want to book a tour with Adventure Sports.
Our company has more than 10 years of experience in the adventure tourism and sports field.
Let me show you some options.
This is our most popular choice.
Our river guides will take you on a white water rafting trip followed by a ride in a
hot air balloon.
I don't really think I'm ready to throw myself down a river full of jagged rocks in a rubber
boat or go up in the air in a wicker basket held up by an oversized balloon.
What else do you have?
Well, in that case, we can take you hang gliding with one of our experienced instructors.
It's the closest you can get to flying.
You mean strap myself to a flimsy kite?
No thank you.
Next.
Well, why don't you tell me a little bit more about what you would like?
We have everything from mountain biking to rock climbing to street luge.
I'm thinking something exciting but safer.
I have the perfect option.
This package will take you on a hiking trip through the Himalayas for three days and afterwards
there's a dog sledding journey.
That's more like it.
So obviously this tour agency or tour operator has a lot of different options.
A lot of them exciting so why don't we take a look at some of those on Language Takeaway.
So the first one has to do with water.
This is called white water rafting.
So white water rafting.
Now rafting means that you go in a raft.
It's a special kind of boat, not a wooden boat, not like a big boat you see in the ocean.
This is a special boat for rivers maybe.
It's an inflatable rubber boat.
So he also described it as a rubber boat.
Okay, rubber is the material it's made out of.
So you go in this boat in a river and it's called white water because it has rapids.
So the river is moving very quickly and you can see that it's a little bit dangerous to
go swimming in a river like this.
So the water goes really fast or when it hits some rocks, the color changes from being blue
or brown to white and that's why it's white water rafting.
It's very, very scary and very dangerous.
That's right, but very exciting.
So that's considered an adventure sport.
And then the trip was followed by a ride in a hot air balloon.
Well everyone's seen balloons before.
Sometimes we give children balloons at the fair or maybe for their birthday.
Balloons are basically rubber filled with air.
But a hot air balloon is a very special kind of mode of transportation actually.
You can travel in a hot air balloon.
It's a big, big balloon that has a basket under it and the person actually described
it as a wicker basket.
A wicker is the material that's used in the basket, right?
It's not furniture like wicker chairs.
It's just a way to basically make furniture out of this kind of bark or natural material.
So a hot air balloon is a very big balloon and it's filled with hot air, usually by some
sort of fire that's under it.
And because it's filled with hot air, it goes up in the air and as you say, you can use
it as transportation, maybe to go very long distances carried by the wind because there's
no real way of giving a direction or just for fun.
It's another dangerous but less dangerous kind of sport.
But after that, we actually have one that I think you have some experience with.
It's called hang gliding.
Hang gliding is another type of sport and also a type of flying sport and basically
you get on a hang glider.
So if you've seen this before, you'll know that it looks like someone is wearing wings.
It's a big kite that you wear.
It's a big kite.
It kind of looks like a triangle, like a kite.
And you fly in it.
So it has no motor.
It has not like the hot air balloon, it has no fire.
So you just basically glide.
You just sail through the air, the atmosphere.
Sounds very peaceful.
But they say that you should go with an instructor.
So what kind of instructor does this tour company offer?
So our operator talked about taking you on a hang glider trip with one of our experienced
instructors.
So experienced is the key word here.
You want someone who has done this many times before, someone who knows what they are doing.
So an experienced instructor is a person that has, as you say, a lot of experience or is
a professional.
So that's an experienced instructor.
You could even say, you know, I want to take flying lessons with an experienced pilot.
Or you can even talk about maybe a chef.
He is a very experienced chef.
He's been a chef for a long time.
So hang gliding.
And our final sport, very exciting as well.
We are going dog sledding.
So this is basically a winter sport or a sport that you do in snowy places.
You stand or sit on a sled and a team of dogs, so that means many dogs, pull you across the
snow.
So you go on a sled, which is basically usually made out of plastic or wood, and this is to
go on top of the snow.
And as you say, a team of dogs pull you.
I think you can see this in movies.
This is kind of like the mode of transportation in places where there are no roads, there
are no other ways of getting places that you just get pulled by dogs.
Like Alaska or the Arctic Circle, somewhere very, very far north.
So a lot of great adventure sports.
Very exciting.
I think it's time for us to listen to the dialogue again.
And we'll be back in a bit with Language Takeaway Part 2.
Our company has more than 10 years of experience in the adventure, tourism, and sports field.
Our river guides will take you on a whitewater rafting trip followed by a ride in a hot air
balloon.
Next?
Mm, OK.
So now we're going to take a look at three quick adjectives that we saw in this dialogue
on Language Takeaway Part 2.
This first adjective is something I'm not a fan of.
Let me just say if you ever go rafting and you see rocks, you want to avoid or you want
to stay away from jagged rocks.
So the adjective jagged refers to maybe sharp or they can cut you, right?
So something that is jagged is not smooth.
It's the opposite of smooth.
So maybe you've seen some rocks that are very pointy or that have things that can easily
hurt you or cut you.
Those are jagged rocks.
Broken glass can have jagged edges and that means you want to avoid touching it because
it can hurt you.
So jagged is a way of describing something that's maybe sharp, pointy or very dangerous
that can cut you.
And then moving on, when we were talking about the hot air balloon, this person very cleverly
said that he doesn't want to go up in the air in a basket held by an oversized balloon.
Okay, so he's exaggerating.
Like you said, he's being clever or silly.
He's just afraid of the balloon.
But basically he's saying an oversized balloon is a very, very, very big or unnaturally big
So bigger than normal.
So an oversized balloon would be a balloon that's bigger than normal.
Or maybe I've seen an oversized...
In the early 1990s, I remember a clothing trend, a lot of people like to wear oversized
t-shirts.
So t-shirts that were way too big for you or maybe unnaturally big, those would be oversized
Like XXXL.
And our final adjective when he was talking about hang gliding, he said that he's not
ready to go up in the air strapped to a flimsy kite.
Okay, so the key word here is flimsy.
We already talked about a kite.
It's something that flies in the air.
But something that's flimsy is not very stable or sturdy.
So it doesn't seem like it's very solid.
So if you have a kite...
So a normal airplane is very sturdy, but a paper airplane is very flimsy.
It's thin, it moves around a lot.
So it's not very solid.
It's not very, as you said, sturdy.
It doesn't really seem like it can stay up in the air for very long.
And it definitely can't support someone's weight.
So you can even have a flimsy chair.
Maybe the chair is a little bit loose or it doesn't seem like it's very strong.
It feels like it might break.
So flimsy.
That's the adjective there, flimsy.
So that's all the adjectives we have for you today.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue quickly one last time and we'll be back to talk a
Excellent!
Okay so Marco, I know this is one of your favorite areas, Adventure Sports.
You're a lot more daring than I am because I wouldn't do many of these things but what
have you done?
I've actually haven't been in a hot air balloon.
I don't really think that's very exciting.
It does seem kind of boring.
Yeah, you don't really go very fast.
And I've never done a street luge which is an interesting sport although it is pretty
It's basically, you're kind of riding on a type of skateboard, right?
Yeah, basically it's a big skateboard and you lie down on it, your feet go down and
your head is back.
You're on your back and you go downhill really fast.
This is actually an Olympic sport and it's simply called luge and you can see this with
those big icy tracks that they have and they go downhill and they slide down on a bob sled
or luge would actually be the same thing but just one or two people on some type of like
skateboard looking thing.
Basically it's open.
The bob sled is closed so you see the people's heads but the luge you just see their whole
body and they're lying down on a piece of metal and they go down very, very quickly.
They go very fast.
I think in bob sledding and luge, I think they can reach speeds up to like 100 kilometers
per hour or more.
And this year it was actually very sad at the Olympics.
A luge, I think it was luge athlete died in practice.
So extreme sports or adventure sports, they are as the name says full of adventure, very
exciting but also obviously very dangerous.
I think hiking is not really an adventure sport or very dangerous unless you're hiking
in dangerous territory with bears or something.
Possible.
Well, maybe you guys should let us know what kind of sports do you do.
Do you enjoy adventure sports?
Thanks for heading out.
My name is Catherine and today we're talking all about animals.
This is a very interesting topic, very important because a lot of people like to have pets.
We're not going to the zoo.
We're not talking about animals out in the forest or in nature.
We're talking about pets that you keep at home.
So let's start right away with today's dialogue and we'll be back in a moment to talk about
We have been over this a hundred times.
We are not getting a pet.
Just a cute little puppy or a kitty.
Who's going to look after a dog or a cat?
I will.
I'll feed it, bathe it, and walk it every day.
We can get a Labrador or a German Shepherd.
What if we want to take a vacation?
Who will we leave it with?
Our apartment is too small for that breed of dog.
How about we get a cat or a ferret?
We're planning on having children soon.
I don't think those animals are a good idea with a baby in the house.
Let's get a bird then.
We can keep it in its cage and teach it to talk.
A parrot would be awesome.
I'll tell you what.
I can get you some hamsters and we'll take it from there.
So obviously pets, having a pet at home is a very big responsibility and well this is
what the couple was talking about.
But before we get into that discussion, why don't we take a look at five key words that
we have picked out for you on Language Takeaway.
So first off the couple is talking about whether they should get a dog or a cat or puppy or
kitty and when they start talking about dogs, they talk about what kinds of dogs or the
breed of the dogs.
Let's look at this word.
They were talking about a German Shepherd or a Labrador and as you said this is the
breed or maybe you can say a kind of dog.
So breed is the technical word to describe the kind of dog that something is.
So like you said these are two examples.
There are many, many, many breeds that we can talk about but we'll just leave it at
this for now.
But we talked about some other kinds of animals today.
But we heard about some other kinds of animals today.
Not dogs, not cats, maybe smaller animals.
One of the animals that the person mentioned was a ferret.
Oh a ferret.
So this is a very small, kind of long animal.
You may have seen it, pets before.
They kind of look like, I don't know, kind of they have the face of a rat maybe but they're
very long.
And they're thin.
They're very thin.
They're not like a rat because maybe their body shape is very, very different.
But they're also kind of small and they like to eat those little insects.
I don't know if they have long tails like rats do.
I think they have furry tails.
I don't think their tails are different.
So that's a ferret.
But we also heard about a special kind of bird.
We talked about a parrot.
So as you know, there are many different kinds of birds.
You can see birds at your window all the time.
But birds that come from tropical places, usually very, very colorful birds are called
parrots.
So a parrot usually can talk or imitate what you say or sounds, right?
They're actually very famous in the bird world for having a good ability to reproduce or
to mimic the sounds that you make.
So if I say, hello, my parrot says, hello.
It's really strange.
They're very, very intelligent animals.
So that's a parrot.
And our last animal is a very small animal, very popular also to have as a pet.
We talked about a hamster.
A hamster.
So this is a little bit like a mouse.
They're furry.
They're small.
They're round.
And they live in glass cages or fish tanks, usually.
They don't really do much.
They're just little furry creatures and they, I don't know, they just eat all day.
Sometimes they get those little wheels that they can get inside and run around all day.
Or when I was a child and we had a hamster, we had a special plastic ball.
And you put the hamster in the ball and he would go around the house.
It's very fun.
So we took a look at the pets that you can buy, domestic animals.
But taking a look at something very specific, when they were describing the responsibilities
of having maybe a dog or a cat, they said they have to feed it, bathe it, walk it.
So obviously we know that feed it is to give it food.
But what about bathe it?
So you might know the word bath.
That's a thing.
Bathe is a verb.
To bathe.
And so I can bathe myself.
That means I take a shower.
I clean my body.
Or I can bathe something else, like an animal.
So bathing a dog means basically washing a dog.
So it sounds very fancy or formal if you say, I'm going to go take a shower.
Or you say, I'm going to go bathe.
We don't really say that as much.
But we often say bathe when we're talking about cleaning other things.
Not a table, but cleaning people or animals.
So you can say, did you bathe the baby?
Or did you bathe the dog?
And also remember that even though the dog may be female or male, we don't give it gender.
We describe it as it.
Animals are almost always considered it in English.
Although some people who really love their animals call it he or she.
So it's kind of your decision.
It's not really incorrect if you say, oh, my dog, she's so beautiful, if it's a female.
But technically, you should say, my dog, it's very beautiful.
So we've taken a look at a lot of words there.
Why don't we go back, listen to the dialogue, and we'll be back in a bit.
Just a cute little puppy or kitty.
Plus, our apartment is too small for that breed of dog.
I can get you some hamsters, and we'll take it from there.
We've picked out four key phrases for you.
Let's take a look at those now in Fluency Builder.
So at the very beginning of today's conversation, we hear the first person say, we've been over
this a hundred times.
This means that they've never talked about this before?
No, this is actually the opposite, but it's a way to exaggerate, right?
Because obviously they haven't maybe talked about getting a pet a hundred times, but you're
just making emphasis on the fact that we've talked about this many, many, many times.
And almost like you're tired of it.
Like, oh, do we have to talk about this again?
It's like you said, an exaggeration to say, come on.
So we've been over this a million times.
We've been over this a hundred times.
These are all ways of saying, oh, we have to talk about this again?
So you're emphasizing that, well, maybe you've done it too many times already.
And well, when they were talking about the puppy or the kitty, the guy asked, well, who's
going to look after the dog or the cat?
So this is an important phrase.
We're going to treat this as a kind of a chunk.
These words go together, to look after.
So we could look after a baby or look after the pet.
This means to watch or to care for.
To take care.
So maybe if you're going to go out tonight, you want to leave your son with a babysitter
to look after him.
To make sure that there are no problems or to make sure that he eats and goes to sleep.
So to look after, to take care or to make sure he or she is okay.
And well, obviously the guy didn't want a puppy.
He didn't want a kitty.
So the girl was giving alternatives and said, well, how about we get a cat or a ferret?
The phrase here, how about, is very, very common in English.
I think a lot of people who learn English have a hard time knowing when to use this
phrase.
How about?
The phrase how about is to give an alternative.
Or a suggestion.
So for example, you and I are talking about where to eat lunch.
And you give a suggestion.
You say, how about pizza?
And I say, I don't know.
How about McDonald's?
We're giving suggestions or offering alternatives.
So this is the correct way of using how about.
Many students make the mistake of using it as to say, how was it?
Or how did it go?
How about your weekend?
That's incorrect.
No, do not say that.
You want to say, how about this?
How about a Coke?
How about some food?
These are suggestions, but a real question you have to say how was or how is.
So never, never, never say, how about your weekend?
That is incorrect.
And it's actually very common to hear this from students.
So remember, it's not correct.
No, incorrect.
So at the very end of the dialogue, we're talking about hamsters.
The phrase take it from there.
It's kind of a way of saying, look, let's start with something small or let's start
with something simple and we will see how it goes.
So basically the woman is saying, I don't want to commit.
I don't want to agree to get a big animal like a dog or a cat because I'm not sure how
it will be.
I'm not sure if it will be too much responsibility.
So she's saying, okay, we'll get something small and then we'll wait and we'll see what
happens.
We'll take it from there.
So it's basically saying, let's start slowly.
So for example, maybe a guy asks you out and says, hey, will you marry me?
And you say, whoa.
Let's go on a date first and we'll take it from there.
We'll see what happens.
So let's start slowly.
Let's take things step by step.
So that's all the phrases that we have for you today.
I think we should listen to the dialogue one last time and we'll be back to talk a little
I'll feed it, bathe it and walk it every day.
We can get a Labrador or a German shepherd.
Alright Catherine, so what about pets?
Are you a big pet lover?
Do you like ferrets, hamsters, all this good stuff?
I don't like small pets.
I love big pets.
So as a kid we had both.
My brother really loved small animals like hamsters and ferrets and things like that.
I just think they're a little bit stinky.
They kind of smell funny.
So ever since, I've always really liked big animals like dogs.
So you are a dog person.
I am a dog person.
This is something interesting that we describe in English.
People say I am a dog person.
I am a cat person.
It's almost like it says something about your personality.
So if you're a dog person, it means that you prefer dogs or you like dogs.
If you're a cat person, you prefer cats.
And a lot of people really like dogs but don't really like cats or they love cats and they
can't stand dogs.
And it even gets to the point where I've heard that maybe on dates people will ask, so are
you a dog person or a cat person?
I know that's how I pick dates.
Are you a dog person or a cat person?
I'm definitely a dog person.
Good answer.
I think cats are, I mean they're nice and they're cuddly and I think they're very good
indoor pets and a little bit more fun than maybe a hamster.
But I think dogs have more life and are more energetic.
I think cats are very lazy.
And I think sometimes cats like to play mind games.
Like they're so smart that they can control you.
That makes me uncomfortable.
So, well, there are a lot of other pets out there.
Some people have tarantula, some people have iguanas, other people have fish.
Or horses.
Horses.
If you have enough space, right?
So we want to know what kind of pets do you have or did you have as a kid?
My name is Catherine and today we've got part three of an exciting series we've got for
you at the elementary level.
As you may remember, this is a series that we're studying all about a job interview.
So in the first part, we just talked about the introduction.
The second part was talking about your personal background and now we're going to talk about
your educational background.
Okay, so the key topic here today is education.
Let's take a listen to this dialogue and we'll be back in a minute.
Now if I look here, I see that you completed a BA in English.
After graduating from high school in New York, I attended York University in the UK.
My major was English and my minor was business.
I completed my BA in 2004.
Yes, I'm pleased to see that you also got a distinction.
I've always enjoyed studying.
My friends say I'm a bit of a bookworm, but my father always pushed us to succeed at school.
Well, it looks like his encouragement paid off, Rebecca.
So how about extracurricular activities at university?
Well, I've always been keen on writing, so I became the editor for the university student
newspaper, which I really loved.
Also, I volunteered for a group called Shelter to help the homeless in New York.
What did that involve?
Providing warm meals and shelter, especially in the winter months.
I found it really fulfilling to be part of that group.
Okay, now let's move on to your work experience, shall we?
So, the girl was talking about her education, about her university, and she talked about
some very interesting words.
So why don't we take a look at those in Language Takeaway.
So, at the very beginning, Mr. Parsons, who's the interviewer here, asks Rebecca about her
background and says, I see that you completed your BA in English.
Okay, so we have an acronym there.
Okay, BA.
This stands for bachelors, or usually a four-year degree at the beginning of your university
studies.
So, it's a type of degree, right?
A BA is, as you say, your bachelor's degree, and it usually takes four years.
You have a Bachelor of the Arts, BA, but you also have a Bachelor of Science, which is
a BS.
So, as you can tell, one is for the arts, like art history, music, things like that.
The other is for sciences, like physics or chemistry.
Alright, so she has a BA in English, so she obviously studied the English language in
university.
Then she moved on to talk about her major and minor.
So, as you know, a degree is not just a degree in the arts in general, but it usually has
a focus or an area of focus.
So her area of focus, her major, was English.
This is the most important part of her studies.
So many of her courses, most of her courses at university were in English.
That's right, but she also has a minor in business studies.
Okay, that means she also studied business and business studies.
That's not as important as her English studies, but it was very much a part of her degree.
So let's say that when she was studying in university, 70% of what she studied was related
to her major, English, and maybe 30% was her minor was business studies.
And she goes on to talk about herself and her friends who describe her as a bookworm.
This is a really nice adjective and very common in English.
So if you are a bookworm or you describe yourself as a bookworm, it means that you like to study
You like to read a lot of books.
So bookworm is just like what you said, is someone who really likes to read, someone
who's always reading, maybe someone who lives in the library.
So that's why you call them a bookworm.
They live in the library or they read a lot of books.
All right, so that's the noun bookworm.
Now moving on to other parts of university.
When you're studying, you're not only studying English or sciences and things like that.
Sometimes you also do other activities or other things.
So you have your schoolwork, which is during school, it's English and business studies
for this woman, Rebecca.
But you also have what you do outside of school.
This is called extracurricular activities.
So that's a long word, extracurricular.
So extracurricular means it's not in the curriculum, right?
It's outside of school.
So it's not really like a specific subject or something that's related to your studies.
If you don't do extracurricular activities, it's okay, right?
That's right, a lot of people don't do any extracurricular activities, but many people
For example, writing for the school newspaper or playing soccer.
So those are extracurricular activities.
Anything that you want to do in university apart from studying, playing soccer, writing,
etc.
And it's not just university.
You can do these in high school as well.
So those are the words that we have picked out for you today.
I think they're very specific to education and I think we should go back, listen to the
dialogue again and we'll be back in a bit with Fluency Builder.
So now let's start off with our first phrase on Fluency Builder.
So Rebecca's talking about her father and her friends, and she says she's a bookworm,
but her father always pushed us, that means her and her family members, her siblings,
to succeed.
And this verb, to push us, to push someone, is very important because it's not the same
as like to push a door.
It's not physically that you're pushing somebody.
It's actually to motivate somebody or to inspire someone to become better at something.
So to push someone is to encourage them to do something bad.
It's not always a good thing.
So she was always pushing me to do what she wanted to do, not what I wanted to do.
That means someone's always trying to influence you or to get you to do something.
So as you say, to push someone is to influence them, to motivate them, to encourage them
to do something good or bad.
Well, and Mr. Parsons agreed with her dad's encouragement and he said, well, it really
paid off.
This is a great verbal phrase, to pay off.
This means to have benefits.
So all of your hard work really paid off.
So you can see the results.
You can see the positive results of your hard work.
It paid off.
You could even ask someone, all that hard work, did it pay off?
So that you're basically asking, was it worth it?
To pay off.
And well, when she was talking about extracurricular activities, she said she was always keen on
writing.
Now, I think this is more common among British people to say you're keen on something, but
it basically means to like.
So remember the phrase keen on.
This is the preposition here, keen on.
I'm keen on writing.
So can you say that you are keen on someone?
That means you like someone, maybe romantically.
So it's kind of, as Catherine said, more of a British thing, but it's correct and you
can use it in replacement of to like.
I think it also sounds a little bit more formal.
Instead of saying, well, I've always liked writing.
If she says, well, I've always been keen on writing, I think it sounds nice.
A little smarter.
It's actually an interesting word.
It might be a little bit complicated to understand, but when she said that volunteering was very
fulfilling and to be part of a group.
Fulfilling sounds a lot like the word filling, but you shouldn't confuse these two because
the meaning is very different, right?
So something that is fulfilling makes you feel really good.
Maybe you don't make money from it or you don't get a lot of praise from it, but it
still makes you feel happy about life for yourself or something.
So you get satisfaction.
Now notice the pronunciation.
You don't say full filling.
No, you say fulfilling.
Fulfilling.
So the L there is kind of silent.
Kind of optional.
But maybe you could ask someone, what do you find fulfilling in your life?
Or you can ask, do you think your job is fulfilling?
So a lot of great words there.
A lot of interesting things related to education and not so much.
All right, so talking about going to university, I think they used a really specific verb there
that's worth mentioning.
She said, I attended York University in the UK.
So to attend.
So you can say, I studied at York University, but the more formal way of saying that I was
a student at York University is to say, I attended that school.
So to attend means to be a student at that place.
And what about you, Catherine?
Did you participate in any extracurricular activities back in college?
I participated in a lot of extracurricular activities.
I was in the orchestra at my university and I played in a lot of musical groups.
I also was in a discussion group for politics and the India-Pakistan dialogue group.
And I was in a number of different film clubs.
So we would talk about film and I even helped out at the TV station for my university.
The university had a TV station.
So all of it was student directed.
So basically the students controlled the TV station.
I think these types of extracurricular activities are as many as these are maybe not as common
in other places, or maybe they're a little bit different.
I know, for example, in the US you have all these political ones and a lot of sports and
things like that, but you also have very strange far ones.
Like I don't know, like there's a cooking club and there's even like a gardening club.
Astronomy club.
There's all types of extracurricular activities.
Well, what's really nice about a lot of American universities is that there are many, many
resources that students can use.
And so maybe the reason there's a cooking club is because there are massive kitchens
the students can use to cook food and experiment and even teachers and professors sometimes
come to help.
So it's a really nice environment because everyone's teaching each other.
No, it's very, very interesting.
We're actually curious to know how universities work in your country.
Are you able to have a minor in a subject?
Because many universities don't offer this option.
They just have one major and that's all.
Or maybe are you able to participate in extracurricular activities?
Like sports or radio or writing.
My name is Catherine and today we have a very technical, very advanced lesson for you.
This is all about one of my favorite subjects.
We're going to talk about music, but specifically we're going to talk about the piano and learning
how to play the piano.
So we're going to talk about very specific vocab related to this instrument.
So piano and playing music, not listening to music.
And there are a lot of interesting words and phrases here.
Some of them actually come from foreign languages like Italian.
So listen up.
And when we come back, we'll be talking about what these words and phrases mean.
Hi Cody.
How did practicing go this week?
Well, I had several tests and an oral presentation this week, so I didn't get a chance to memorize
the second page, but I think I mastered the tricky section.
Let's start with some scales and arpeggios first.
Good, good.
This week, work on keeping the rhythm steady when you play the last part with the 16th
notes.
Now let's take a look at this tricky section.
Charlene, before I start, I was wondering if it was okay if I put a small crescendo
in here and then a decrescendo back to pianissimo again over here.
Hmm, it might work.
I'll have to hear it.
Show me what you've done.
It was horrible.
I played it much better at home.
It's just nerves.
Just play the right hand for now.
One, two, three, four, five, six, ta, ti, triple e, ti.
Don't forget the accidentals.
The key signature says that note should be a G sharp, but now it's a G natural.
Now add the bass clef.
You're going too fast.
Remember the tempo for this piece is andante.
Is that better?
Yes, much better.
Watch where you lift your foot off the pedal.
The stretch for that octave is always hard to make.
Keep going.
You're moving ahead by leaps and bounds.
Watch your dynamics.
Keep your elbows lifted.
Remember to stroke the keys.
Don't pound.
That's better.
Remember that as a pianist or any other musician, your technique will be what separates you
from the pack just as much or as more so as your musicianship.
You probably noticed that there are a lot of ways to describe certain aspects of playing
the piano.
They talked about scales and all that stuff.
Why don't we take a deeper look at this vocab in Language Takeaway Part 1.
The first part of the lesson is the warm-up.
That's when we start to get our fingers moving and really stretch out.
This is an important part of any musician's routine because it's also a way to practice
some very basic, very fundamental things.
The first of which is a scale.
So actually, Cody started warming up with some scales.
So what exactly are scales?
Well, basically, there are different musical notes.
Some people know them as do, re, mi, fa, sol, la, ti, do.
Some people call them C, D, E, F, G, A, B, C. But each of those and many others have
scales.
So that's eight notes together.
So basically, when you're playing scales, you're just playing a sequence of these eight
Going up or down.
To warm up.
And what about an arpeggio?
I think this is Italian, right?
Arpeggio is another kind of warm-up where you're not playing every single note.
You're playing some notes in a scale.
So, la, da, da, da, da, da, da, da.
That's an arpeggio.
So, and as you said, these are usually for warm-ups, right?
They're also very important because they come into play later when you're talking about
the key that a song or a piece of music is in.
So this helps you memorize the key that some music is in.
So I think related to this is the rhythm of the piece that you're playing.
So rhythm is really important.
You can even say, you know, he's got rhythm or they have rhythm.
It's a way to describe the beat of a kind of music.
So sometimes it has to do with how fast or how slow something is.
Other times it has to do with the way that the notes work together.
For example, a steady beat would be one, two, three, four, one, two, three, four.
This is a complicated beat.
It goes ta, ti, tri, po, li, ta, ti, tri, po, li.
So this is a very difficult kind of rhythm.
So the rhythm is just kind of, it gives you how fast, how slow it is.
And I guess if you can take a look at notes and you can play it in many different rhythms,
but not necessarily they're going to sound correct.
And actually it's interesting.
In English we also have a group of instruments that are called rhythm instruments.
So this would be like the drums.
So it gives the beat.
And well, moving on, I think some other Italian words popped up in here when they talked about
crescendo and decrescendo.
So crescendo is when something becomes louder.
So I can make a crescendo.
But a decrescendo, de in Italian, just like in English means it's the opposite.
So it means it's getting really softer.
And what about pianissimo?
Pianissimo is basically an indication.
It also comes from Italian.
It's an indication that a player, a musician should play something very, very, very quietly.
It's almost like a whisper.
So all these three words have to do with the volume of or how loud or not so loud you play
the instrument.
And well, moving on now, we talk about accidentals.
This is important.
Remember earlier we were talking about scales.
Well, for example, the G scale has one sharp.
So that's an F sharp.
So if I'm playing it on the piano, there are seven white keys and one black key.
So actually here they mentioned G sharp and then something like G natural.
All this, just like for everyone that's out there is complete Chinese to me.
I have no idea what this is all about.
So you have the accidentals and G sharp and you're describing something about sharpness
with accidentals.
So basically if you look at a piano, you have white keys.
Those are natural.
They don't have a sharp or a flat.
The sharps and flats are actually played on the black keys.
Usually it's a half step from a normal note.
So G, it's a half step.
We're talking about different keys.
So if something is in the key of G, all of you music people know what this is, key of
G, there's one accidental.
What's the accidental?
It's always F sharp.
And so an accidental means a sharp or a flat in that key.
So when we talk about sharps on the piano, they're basically the black keys.
Well, sharps and flats can both be black keys.
And well, apart from accidentals and G sharp, G natural, the teacher also talked about a
bass clef.
This is important for people who play lower instruments like the bass, you know, the upright
bass that big one or people who play the piano, obviously, this represents a way of writing
the lower notes.
So you see the lines, those five lines on paper and people write the notes.
Well, sometimes they're for higher instruments, you know, the flute or the trumpet.
But sometimes when they're for lower instruments, like the left hand of a piano or for the upright
bass, you have to write it in a special register, a special part of the sound kind of continuum.
And that's the treble.
That's the bass clef.
So basically, if anyone has ever seen piano notes, it tells you what to play with your
left hand and your right hand.
So I imagine the bass clef will be everything that's on your left hand because that sounds
like deeper, graver, right?
Yeah, it's lower.
So it's lower on the scale instead of like up high up here where it's on the treble clef.
So, oh, so the opposite would be the treble clef.
The treble clef is up higher.
It's most other instruments like the trumpet.
The bass clef is for lower instruments.
And that just means that the way that you read the music on the page is a little bit
different.
And well, we also got into things like tempo and the piece was described as andante.
Andante.
This is a very Italian word.
Okay, so andante means that something is played slowly.
So apart from andante, if so, it's a style or a tempo.
I guess tempo is the speed of which is played, right?
But you're right to say that it's also a style because in many symphonies, for example, there's
a movement, a part of the symphony that's called the andante.
And that's when everything starts to get slow and serious or pretty.
I've heard, I don't know, in piano, I've heard of something called staccato.
And I think this is also related to tempo, right?
Staccato is the way that you play something.
So instead of having these long, pretty notes, you're playing them like this.
They're very, very sharp.
Like a machine gun.
Okay, so but it's not related to the tempo.
It's kind of more just like the way that you press the keys.
It's a style for playing.
Well, the teacher also told the student to be careful where they lift the foot off the
pedal.
And the student said, I'm just so sorry.
Okay, so an octave is really, really important in music.
Like we were talking about earlier with a scale, a scale is eight notes.
Well, the root, the place the word octave comes from is the number eight, like an octagon.
So octave means eight notes together, or like low C, high C, that's an octave.
So think about the piano, when you're putting your fingers on the keys, covering eight keys
means you have to stretch your thumb and your pinky out really, really far.
And so he's saying, sorry, it's hard for me to do this because the octave, that stretch
is really hard for my hand.
So this is different from an eighth, right?
Are you talking about eighth note?
Because I just came into the night because an octave is eight and an eighth note is different,
I imagine.
Well, you heard in the dialogue, 16th note, eighth note.
That's actually talking about the length of a note, how long you hold it.
So basically you're saying it's the way you measure the music.
You can have four count or three count, but you divide that into pieces.
It's like a pie in math where you divide it into pieces.
So if it's a 16th note or an eighth note, that's the length based on the kind of music
you're playing.
So I imagine 16th note is shorter than eighth.
At least I got that one right.
And 32nd note is shorter than a 16th note.
You have all the way up to 32nd.
64th note is shorter.
It gets very complicated, very mathy.
And towards the end, the teacher recommended for Cody to watch his dynamics.
What does she mean with watch your dynamics?
I used to get this all the time in music.
So you're concentrating on your music, you're playing, you're getting the notes and Cody
is stretching his hands.
The octaves are so far away and he forgets to play it loud or soft because on the page
it says like we heard earlier, decrescendo.
So get much, much softer.
So Cody completely forgot.
He's not listening.
He's not reading the page and seeing what it says about the volume of the music.
So basically the dynamics are like the instructions of how loud to play it or not so loud.
So does it say pianissimo or the opposite?
Does it say forte?
And it will actually say this on the notes.
Forte, it'll say that.
F-O-R-T-E or sometimes just F.
So P is piano.
That means like we said earlier, quiet.
Pianissimo is P, P, P. It's very, very quiet.
F is forte, loud.
So I think, well, if anyone out there plays an instrument you can relate and you can maybe
know about these things that you may know it in your original language.
I know many people who play musical instruments and don't really know the technical words
in their original language.
I mean, things like Andante and pianissimo, things like this, I think are universal, right?
They're used in whatever language.
Very, very widely used.
But things like the accidentals or bass clef or scales and stuff like that, I think it's
obviously different languages.
For example, you know Italian, like scales or accidentals, are they?
They're different.
All of the other words.
So the instructions on the page, because music is shared all over the world, the instructions
on the page are almost always in Italian, so piano, andante, or they're in German.
Some music.
And everything else, scales, octaves, these are all in your native language.
And so they're very, very important to study if you want to play and I think very, very
useful if you want to study an instrument.
I think it's also a very good idea to just have a general knowledge about these things
because sometimes it's nice to know a little bit about it and maybe if a friend is talking
about music, you can maybe understand a little bit more about what it's like.
Or if you see music, a sheet of music, you can now more or less know what's going on
with all those drawings and little scribbles there.
And if you have any questions, of course, you're welcome to come to our website and
ask or share your experiences as Marco has just said.
So please come to EnglishPod.com.
Let's David!
And sometimes you're just tired of work, you're tired of everything, you want to go somewhere
for a nice romantic weekend, you take a holiday or a getaway.
So why don't we take a look at this word on Vocabulary Preview.
Okay, so Marco, the word I mentioned is getaway.
It has a couple of different meanings in English.
Well, to get away from someone would be to like leave, right, to try and stay far away.
But a getaway, so taking it as a noun, a romantic getaway, is actually to take a holiday or
romantic escape from the city, escape from your daily normal life.
So it's usually kind of brief or sudden, almost like you're just going to sneak out and then
come back in a couple of days.
So many people refer to them as island getaways if you go to an island or a romantic getaway
if you have a romantic two-day vacation or something like this.
And what are you getting away from?
You're getting away from work, you're getting away from the busyness of the city, you're
getting away from noise.
It's a nice way to get into the countryside or as you said, the islands.
So I think we can take a look at our dialogue.
We actually were going to a travel agency called Getaway Tours and we're going to try
and see if we can book a nice romantic getaway.
Welcome to Perfect Getaway Tours.
I would like to plan a surprise getaway for me and my wife.
We have a couple of different options such as beaches, the wilderness, the countryside
or even going to a spa for the weekend.
I think something in the countryside would be nice.
This package includes round trip flights to New Hampshire.
A free airport pickup is included.
Our VIP limousine will pick you up and provide you with complimentary champagne and finger
foods to soften this 30 minute ride to the countryside.
What is the hotel that we'll be staying at like?
That is the best part.
Your hotel is actually an old country villa that has been restored and refurbished to
accommodate a maximum of 10 guests.
You will enjoy an intimate and private time in this very spacious and warm hotel.
Included in the price is three meals a day, excluding beverages.
You can choose to eat at the fabulous restaurant that offers a stunning view of the lush green
garden.
Or if you prefer, your own private butler can arrange your meal to be served in your
room or outside on our terrace.
Wow this sounds like something my wife would really enjoy.
Are there any outdoor activities we can take part in?
The hotel has a stable with beautiful stallions for a very romantic horseback ride along the
country trail.
You can also go fishing at the nearby lake or visit the local vineyard.
I'm sold.
I want to book this trip.
I don't care what it costs.
Money is no object.
So I think this sounds pretty romantic right?
It sounds too good to be true.
It's perfect.
They have butlers and food and horseback riding.
So she actually mentioned a couple of interesting words there describing where they're going
to go or how they're going to spend their time.
So why don't we take a look at those now on Language Takeaway.
Okay so the first word has to do with where this couple is going.
They're going to the countryside.
That's right the countryside.
So what exactly is the countryside?
Well countryside or the country is the opposite of the city.
So it's anywhere that is rural or less developed than a city.
Not big skyscrapers or businesses or big towns.
It's actually pretty quiet.
Okay so usually the countryside will have a lot of natural wildlife.
Trees, gardens or farms I think can be considered part of the countryside.
And so yeah that's basically the complete opposite from a city right?
Yes and that's why a lot of people take getaways to the countryside because it's as far away
from the city as you can go.
Okay very good and to get to the countryside they're actually taking a round trip flight
to New Hampshire.
Alright so round trip is an important vocabulary item when we're talking about travel because
you can use this for train tickets, flight tickets, even boat tickets.
It means that you're going there and you're coming back.
It's basically two tickets.
Right so the opposite would be if you buy a one-way ticket or a one-way flight.
That's right so many people dream of buying a one-way ticket to the island.
They never have to come back but round trip means you're going to come home at some point.
So they're actually going round trip to New Hampshire and also they're getting picked
up at the airport where they're going to have a nice limo that's going to offer them complimentary
champagne and finger foods.
Okay my favorite kind of champagne.
Complimentary.
That's right this means that they're not going to pay for it right?
It's free.
So the company is going to pay for it.
You can have complimentary food, you can have complimentary service.
These are basically things that someone else is providing for you.
You don't have to pay for them.
Even on talking about flights sometimes people will get a complimentary upgrade to first
class that means they are getting a better service for free.
Not me.
Hey if you work for an airline I would love complimentary bump to first class.
And what about this finger foods?
What about that?
That sounds kind of strange.
Yeah it might sound disgusting but it's not actually fingers that you eat.
It's food that you can eat with your fingers.
So they're like small little treats or snacks that you can have.
Exactly usually if you go to a cocktail party or if you go to a party at a museum or an
event they'll have these little little foods that you can pick up and eat.
You don't need a fork or a spoon.
Okay so they're very small convenient little snacks that you can just kind of pick at and
pop into your mouth.
All right and all of this they're doing because they have a 30 minute ride to the countryside
so they want to soften the 30 minute ride.
Okay so to soften something means to make it more enjoyable or more pleasurable.
Because oh no the 30 minute ride is so rough so hard.
And so boring.
So this makes it better.
Okay so yeah you can soften things such as the ride to the countryside or you can even
soften someone up so maybe give them some nice compliments so they'll be nice to you.
That's right to soften.
Okay all right so why don't we take a break and listen to the dialogue again and we'll
be back with language takeaway part two.
Included in the price is three meals a day excluding beverages.
gardens or if you prefer, your own private butler can arrange your meal to be served
in your room or outside on our terrace.
Wow, this sounds like something my wife would really enjoy.
Alright, we're back and now we're going to take a look at a good group of adjectives
that the travel agent used to describe how great this hotel is, how great the place is.
Okay, so the person on the telephone representing the travel company is trying to sell something.
So she's using these really, really great adjectives to make everything sound awesome.
And one of the first things she says is that you will enjoy an intimate and private time
in this great hotel.
Okay, so an intimate time, if something is intimate, it means it's very, I don't know,
it usually means like romantic, right?
Romantic, cozy, but also private.
So something that is intimate is usually between two people.
Okay, so if they're going to have an intimate and private room, that means it's a room only
for them.
Yes, or if someone has an intimate relationship, that means that they're romantically involved.
Okay, and the travel agent went on to describe how fabulous the restaurant is.
So this adjective is really nice, fabulous.
I think you have to say it like that, fabulous.
So this means that it's just a wonderful restaurant.
And some people even say totally fab.
Can you describe someone as fabulous?
Not really, right?
He is so fabulous.
She is fabulous.
You can say that?
My mom says it all the time.
Yeah, so it also depends on, I think, your personality.
This is a very, very descriptive word.
So sometimes it's a bit too strong.
You have to be careful.
But yeah, you can describe a person, you can describe a place, you can describe a thing
with the word fabulous.
Apart from having this fabulous restaurant, they also have a stunning view of the gardens.
All right, stunning is similar to the word breathtaking or shocking in a good way.
It makes you really, really impressed because it's so beautiful or so unique.
Okay, so for example, the views, the view of the beach is stunning, right?
Or even someone, you can say, wow, you look stunning.
So this is a really great compliment, by the way.
Usually men say this to women.
Women don't say this to men.
You can describe someone's clothes as stunning, like her dress was stunning at the Oscars.
But if you're a man trying to give a woman a good compliment, believe me, this one works.
You look stunning this evening.
Okay, nice little tip there.
Using the adjective stunning.
Okay, now lush.
We have lush green gardens.
So we're looking, we have a stunning view of the lush green gardens.
This word lush.
Lush usually describes things that are organic, like plants and flowers.
And we say this to mean that something is very green, very healthy, very full.
Okay, so an apple tree, full with apples and you have a, it just looks great.
You would say it's a lush apple tree.
Right, or I could even say, I've heard that the rainforests of Ecuador are very, very
lush, very green.
All right, so lush, they're very abundant, very green, very healthy.
And apart from these adjectives, the sales agent also described that the country villa
had recently been restored and refurbished.
So what about these two words, restored and refurbished?
Okay, basically what she's saying is that this house, this big villa, was recently completely
remade on the inside.
So the appearance, the look doesn't really change.
It's still an old, beautiful villa, but maybe the insides were old or needed to be updated.
And so that means that the plumbing, the lights, the walls, the paint, that was all restored,
maybe to look like the original, very, very beautiful and clean.
But also it was refurbished, which means that the fittings and the carpet and maybe the
lights and all the furniture, that was also new again.
Okay, so we usually hear about this sometimes in the news when they are restoring an old
church or an old building.
That means they're making it, they're trying to save it and make it look like it used to.
They're not changing it, right?
They're not trying to make it look new, but they're trying to make it look like it used
to look before it got old.
You know how sometimes old things are worn and they're not pretty anymore?
Well, what they're trying to do is make it really shiny and beautiful.
And refurbish is basically to give it, as you said, new carpet or sometimes new furniture
So many people refurbish their homes, right?
And it's a very, very popular thing to do with older houses.
You buy them, you fix them, you restore them, you refurbish them so that you want to live
in them.
So a lot of great things from this dialogue.
I think we should listen to it one more time and we'll be back in a little bit.
We have a couple of different options such as beaches, the wilderness, the countryside,
foods to soften the 30 minute ride to the countryside.
gardens.
All right, so talking about getaways.
Now the sales agent offered him options such as beach, wilderness, countryside, or even
Which one do you prefer?
Wilderness.
You want to go into the forest, the jungle.
Yes, I hate to say it.
I think beaches are boring.
Sorry, mom.
I know you love beaches.
I like to do stuff when I'm away.
I love the desert too, but the wilderness, somewhere where I'm outside.
I live in a city.
I don't want to go to a city.
I like to go somewhere where I can walk around, hike, ride a bike, do things like that.
I actually don't have a favorite, actually.
Sometimes it's nice for me to go to the beach and relax.
I do tend to get a little bit bored after maybe two days of doing nothing on the beach.
But it does give a good opportunity to do other things, beach activities like snorkeling
or scuba diving, which can also be really fun.
But definitely I do enjoy the wilderness as well, the jungle and rafting or camping.
It's good fun.
The insects can be a bit of a nuisance at times.
Or the rain.
Getting in the snow or the rain is so horrible.
But other than that, yeah, it's great.
I know not many people enjoy these types of outdoor getaways.
But of course, you have spas.
I know many people enjoy going to a spa, having a mud bath.
Nothing wrong with that.
Getting your nails done, having a massage.
Getting the whole royal treatment, like we say.
So this is what we want to know now.
When you go on vacation, what do you like to do?
Do you like to get away to the tropical beaches?
Do you like to go to the islands or the jungle?
What do you like to do?
Please subscibe to EnglandAndTheWest.com
My name is Catherine and today we have a new lesson in our series about interviewing for
a new job.
This is of course at the elementary level.
So this is part four of our interview series.
Remember we are taking a look each week at giving you tips and also the proper language
for when you have an interview in English.
And on this occasion we're going to talk about our work experience.
Okay, you remember we talked a little bit about educational experience and educational
Well today is all about your last couple of jobs.
Alright, so I think we should just listen to the dialogue for the first time and we'll
be back in a bit with language takeaway.
Right Rebecca, now I see that after graduating from university your first job was...
For a local paper in York called the York Herald.
Actually I started with them as an intern.
I was really keen on getting some experience in journalism and this seemed like a good
first step.
And after your internship?
They seemed impressed and offered me a position as a junior local news reporter.
I ended up staying two years there actually.
I was in charge of the sports news section of the newspaper.
I really enjoyed it there and it really helped me build my skills.
Yes I see, but you decided to leave them in 2006, right?
Yes that's right.
My husband and I moved to London and so I managed to find a position with a national
newspaper based in London.
The London Weekly, right?
In some ways it was a step down from my previous job but it did offer me much better prospects
for the future.
Alright we're back so now we've picked out a couple of key words and we're going to take
a look at those now on Language Takeaway.
So Marco, a lot of people don't start out as a professional with a job.
They have something else first.
A very popular way to begin your work experience, you become an intern or you work as an intern.
Okay so the name of the job we could say is intern.
I'm an intern or he's an intern at my company.
So usually interns work at a company.
Usually they're not paid or if they are it's a very, very little pay and the purpose of
an internship or to work as an intern is to gain experience.
So it's basically like a study opportunity for a job that you know you want.
I could be an intern at a media company and I could learn all about media but it's not
really a full job.
So it's really it serves as an opportunity to maybe continue working at that company
in a full time job.
So you become an intern and the noun or what you are doing is called an internship.
So I'm an intern but what I have is an internship.
It's like saying I have a job.
I have an internship but I am an intern.
Alright so we've covered those two words.
Now let's move on to when she's describing her work experience in the York Herald and
she described it as a very good first step.
Okay so a first step you think about your foot, your step, your moving.
It means the very first thing you do when you're heading in some direction.
Right and professionally I guess your first steps are maybe becoming an intern.
Right or you could say my first step was working in the mail room at this big movie studio
but later I became a famous movie producer.
Exactly so that's kind of like the way that you begin your professional life.
And well then they started talking about the newspapers and actually Rebecca was offered
a position as a junior local news reporter.
Okay so junior means usually lower ranking or not experienced.
Someone who is just starting out and of course after junior we have senior.
So a senior news reporter is someone who's worked for many many years as a reporter.
Usually I guess a junior news reporter would make less money than a senior news reporter.
Exactly you could also say junior executive or senior executive.
Junior manager.
These are ways of describing length of experience.
And in this case she's junior but what kind of job does she have?
Well she is a news reporter for local issues.
Okay so she's a local news reporter.
Now what exactly does that mean if you're a local news reporter or for local issues?
Well if I live in Chicago and I'm a local news reporter I only write or report the news
about Chicago.
It's a way of describing the things in my area.
So it's the opposite of our next phrase national news reporter.
Okay so if you are a national news reporter or a national manager of maybe a company then
that means that you oversee things in the whole country.
That's right so local is my city or my county but in the case of national we're talking
about the whole country.
Nation national.
So national is an adjective.
But we could even go further than this.
What if I am a reporter and I talk about foreign countries?
I talk about France and South Africa and even Iceland.
Then I guess you would be an international news reporter.
And I guess also at the executive level you can have an international marketing manager
International marketing manager, national marketing manager.
These are very important ways to divide work to say he is the international manager, he
is the national manager.
This tells you the kind of the size of this person's job.
Okay so now more or less you know how these jobs can be divided junior, senior, national,
local, etc.
So I think we should go back to the dialogue.
Alright Rebecca, now I see that after graduating from university your first job was...
Yes I see.
But you decided to leave them in 2006, right?
Alright so now let's start with a couple of phrases and phrasal verbs on Fluency Builder.
Okay in today's dialogue we heard a lot of really wonderful phrases Marco.
Some of them are ways of making your experiences sound better, more professional even.
For example this first one, sorry Rebecca is talking about her first job in York and
she says I was in charge of the sports news section.
So that phrase, I was in charge of or to be in charge of, what does this describe?
This describes responsibility.
Basically she's saying I was responsible for or I had to manage the sports news section.
She's taking credit for this job that was important.
Okay so this is a key phrase because this is the typical phrase that you use to describe
your responsibilities or to describe what you did in your previous job position or your
previous job.
So I could ask you when you were in marketing, what were you in charge of?
Right and then you say well I was in charge of and then you explain your responsibilities
or what you did.
I was in charge of our national accounts or I was in charge of the local news.
Exactly so this is a very simple phrase, just remember it.
I was in charge of and then you can start explaining what were your responsibilities,
what you did in your previous job.
Alright moving on now towards the end of that paragraph, Rebecca says that well being in
charge of the sports news section was really fun and it really helped her build my skills.
It really helped me build my skills.
So to build your skills or in this case I build my skills means that I have some skills
but maybe they're not really developed.
Maybe I just finished college, I want more experience.
Well in that time during my first job I build my skills.
I become better at writing or having interviews, things like that.
Exactly so when you build your skills you kind of improve your abilities or you gain
more experience.
Another interesting phrase coming up here when Rebecca talked about moving to London
with her husband she said I managed to find a position with a national newspaper.
Okay so I managed to or you could say to manage to do something.
This is a really interesting phrase because it's another way of saying to be able to
or to succeed at something.
Okay so don't confuse it with manager or to manage people.
That is also correct, obviously it exists but to manage to do something is to as you
said to be able to do something.
Right so for example I was running really late yesterday and I had a ticket for a train
at five o'clock.
I thought I would miss the train but I managed to get to the train on time.
That means I was able to get on the train on time.
Obviously so you managed to find a job, I managed to get to the train on time, I was
able to.
Alright and towards the end Rebecca talked about her job at the London Weekly and she
described it as a step down from my previous job.
Okay is this a good thing or a bad thing Marco?
To be a step down in something is a bad thing.
It's to reduce in level or to decrease.
Okay so basically she's saying listen I had this really great job in York and I took a
new job in London and the new job it wasn't as good in many ways because maybe she had
less responsibility or maybe it paid less.
So this is a way of saying it wasn't as good as my last job.
Okay so her new job was a step down from her previous job.
You could say I think his new girlfriend's a bit of a step down if you know what I mean.
So usually you're comparing right?
You're making a comparison between something from the past to now.
Okay so a step down.
Why don't we go back and listen to the dialogue for the very last time and we'll be back to
talk to you in a bit.
Right Rebecca now I see that after graduating from university your first job was...
Yes I see but you decided to leave them in 2006 right?
The London Weekly right?
Alright so talking about internships and interns it seems that usually it's not very exciting
to become an intern because it ends up that the office people just make you make coffee
or copies and stuff like that.
You're not really gaining much work experience.
That is the reputation in the United States for internships.
So basically when you agree to do an internship, sometimes you have to apply to do an internship.
It's a very long process.
You end up like you say making coffee for people or photocopying reports and this is
really boring work.
I think that is the reputation that many places have like you say in the United States but
also I don't know I guess it does seem in a way the only opportunity in order to be
able to get into an industry or a company.
Maybe it's a really good company like I don't know like Procter and Gamble.
And how else are you going to be able to get in there with no job experience?
Well that's right and a lot of people know that an internship doesn't really give you
work experience but they still think that it gives you some edge or some advantage when
you're looking for jobs later because if I write down on my resume, we were talking earlier
about resumes, if I write down on my resume that I was an intern at Procter and Gamble,
wow that's really impressive.
Right, it looks good.
Alright so this is an interesting topic.
Let us know if you were ever an intern.
Maybe you started out as an internship or maybe you're doing one now.
Was it better than we say?
Did you do anything else other than making coffee?
We really hope so and we look forward to hearing about your experiences.
Alright we'll see everyone at EnglishPod.com and until next time.
EnglishPod is a production of WESO and is not meant to replace proper medical or therapeutic
treatment.
My name is Katherine and today we're talking about something that I haven't actually seen
in a long time but is very common in the States, especially in suburban areas.
We're going to get a subscription as the title of the lesson says.
So we're going to subscribe to magazines, newspapers, stuff like that.
So there's a guy coming around to everyone's houses and he's offering different magazine
subscriptions.
Good afternoon, ma'am.
My name is Mike and I'm selling subscriptions to all sorts of periodicals.
No, thank you.
I'm not interested.
Please, ma'am, if you could spare five minutes of your time, I'm sure we could find something
that could interest you.
I wish I could, but I have to walk the dog and finish cooking.
So if you'd excuse me.
We have a great variety of magazines all about cooking.
This one, for example, is a bi-monthly publication with recipes from all over the world.
Well, that would be kind of useful.
Do you have any other cooking magazines?
This one is a quarterly publication, but each issue has over 200 colored pages of recipes
and also many home decorating ideas.
Wow, this is nice.
Okay, sign me up for both publications.
You mentioned you have a dog.
Can pet owners sign up for this weekly newsletter that has information on dog care, pet shops,
and even pet sitters?
That's exactly what I needed.
Well, I also have...
So as you saw, Mike is, well, not very excited to be selling subscriptions, but he has magazines
about almost everything, I think.
And he's actually a pretty good salesperson because it sounds like this customer is going
to buy quite a few magazines.
And so he used a lot of interesting vocabulary related to magazines and subscriptions.
Okay, so this first word is one that we've already said a couple of times in today's
This is the topic of the lesson.
The word is subscription.
Okay, so if you get a subscription, that means that you are paying money to receive something
every month, every week, etc.
So the time is fixed.
Like you said, it could be weekly, the time could change.
But basically, you have a promise that after you pay this money, you'll receive something
periodically.
And so there are many things that you could have a subscription for, not just magazines.
Newspapers come in subscriptions.
Or maybe you pay for satellite TV.
That's a subscription.
You pay every month and you receive channels, like lots of channels.
Or hopefully, EnglishPod, you receive by subscription or you pay the subscription fee.
So with EnglishPod, you subscribe.
That would be the verb.
A subscription is the noun.
You subscribe to a service like a newspaper magazine and you receive the magazine or the
service every month, every week, every day, depending on what the subscription is like.
Okay, and so because subscriptions come at different time frames, so for example, EnglishPod,
we have lessons three times a week.
Newspapers are oftentimes every day.
They come in different periods of time.
So we call these kinds of publications periodicals.
So for example, as you said, a newspaper, it comes every day.
That's the period of time.
So it's a periodical.
The same as a magazine.
Sometimes they are weekly.
Sometimes they are monthly.
Is a book a periodical, Pop Quiz?
No, because you only get it once.
So basically, a periodical has to be something, I guess, that comes out every so often, a
new version, a new edition.
It's continually updating.
So that is periodicals and subscriptions.
Now moving on to when he was trying to sell the magazines, he said, we have a great variety
of magazines all about cooking.
So what is a variety?
Variety is a great word.
It's a word I personally am a very big fan of.
I like to have many choices to choose from.
So variety means something that has many options.
For example, at the grocery store, there's a great variety of food.
There are apples and crackers and cakes and wine.
So variety means there are many different kinds of something.
So many choices.
At the bookstore, you can find a variety of books and magazines, for example.
Now moving on to, again, when we're talking about the period of time, how often she's
going to get this cooking magazine, the one that he's showing her is a bi-monthly publication.
So what exactly does it mean if she receives a magazine bi-monthly?
So this is a bit confusing in English.
Bi-monthly has two meanings, but what's important is the word bi- here or the prefix bi-.
That means two.
So we could say bi-monthly, bi-weekly, bi-annually.
These all mean two.
So in this case, we're talking about something that I receive two times every month.
Or it can be that you get it once every two months.
So that might be confusing.
So let's just say that it's the month of October and I have this great subscription to a magazine.
So in October, I will receive it two times.
So you get it twice.
Or it could also mean that you receive the magazine in October and then you don't receive
another magazine until December.
So it's a bi-monthly publication.
Every other month.
Every two months.
So this is very confusing for us.
It's confusing for you, but if you see this word bi-monthly or bi-weekly, you should ask
the person who's offering the subscription what kind they mean.
Is it every month two times or is it every other month?
Just remember the prefix bi- means two.
And then if it's bi-monthly, bi-annual, bi-weekly, you have to more or less make sure that they
specify what they mean because it can mean both.
And that's how ambiguous this word is.
So the next one, the next word we have for you is not nearly as confusing.
It's a very, very common word in both periodicals and sales, but also in marketing and business
We're talking about a quarterly publication or something that comes out once every quarter.
So if you think about a year, a year has 12 months.
A quarter of a year is three months.
So the first quarter is January, February, March.
So a quarterly publication means that you will get a magazine four times in one year.
We could also talk about quarterly sales.
You know, this quarter our business did very well, but last quarter was not so good.
So quarter means three months at a time.
And for our last word on language takeaway today, we are talking about a weekly newsletter.
So weekly is pretty straightforward.
You receive it once every week.
So weekly publications are very common.
What is a newsletter?
A newsletter is important in periodicals because it's not a magazine, but it's not a letter
either.
It's basically a short update, a couple of pages maybe, or even one page that's on a
piece of paper that gives you information about a group or a club or a community.
For example, we could say the EnglishPod newsletter comes out quarterly.
Maybe in your offices you receive your company's newsletter.
So usually some companies will come out with a monthly or a quarterly newsletter where
if you have many offices or many branches all over the country or the world, then you
will receive updates or news about what's going on in other places within your same
So these are very useful for communication across the company.
You can tell some people in your New York office that in Los Angeles we have a new cafeteria
or a new employee.
So that is what a newsletter is basically for.
I think it's time now for us to listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back to talk
to you with four key phrases on Fluency Builder right after this.
Good afternoon ma'am.
Please ma'am, if you could spare five minutes of your time, I'm sure we could find something
I wish I could, but I have to walk the dog and finish cooking, so if you'd excuse me.
This one for example is a bi-monthly publication with recipes from all over the world.
Wow, well that would be kind of useful.
Most pet owners sign up for this weekly newsletter that has information on dog care, pet shops
and even pet sitters.
All right, so now we have some sentences or ways that you can say things on Fluency Builder.
Okay, this first phrase is very, very common among sales and sales people because basically
it's a way to be polite and to ask someone to listen to you for a little while.
The salesperson says, if you could spare five minutes of your time.
Okay, so let's start with that part.
If you could spare.
So to spare something means do you have something extra?
Do you have enough of it?
Yeah, so I could say, can you spare $5?
I forgot my wallet at home.
So that means do you have an extra $5 I could borrow?
So if you're asking someone to spare five minutes of their time, you're asking them
to give you five minutes of their time.
So if you could spare a second or if you could spare five minutes of your time, I would like
to talk to you.
Okay, so it's a very polite way to ask someone for their time.
Now for our next phrase, the woman is also very polite.
She says, you know what?
I have to walk the dog.
I have to finish cooking.
So if you would excuse me.
She's basically saying no in a very polite way.
If you could excuse me, I've got to go.
So this is a kind of a very indirect but polite way of saying, I'm sorry, I can't stay.
I got to go or I can't really talk to you right now.
So if you're at a party, for example, and you're talking to somebody, but you don't
really want to talk to them anymore, you could say, it was nice talking to you if you could
excuse me.
It means if I can leave now.
Okay, so you can say if you could excuse me or if you would excuse me.
Both forms are pretty much the same.
Okay, and what about when she actually is convinced about the magazine?
She says, wow, this is nice.
Okay, sign me up.
This means I would like a subscription.
That means I would like you to take my information and I will give you some money.
But this is also a really nice phrase in English because it means I want to do this.
I'm interested.
So if you would use this in another context, for example, a group of friends are going
to the movies.
I say, oh, sign me up.
I heard that movie was awesome.
So sign me up is like include me, I want to go to or I'm part of it, of whatever you're
doing.
Okay, so that's all the phrases we have for you today.
I think they're really good.
They're not specific for this circumstance of getting a subscription.
As we saw, we can use them in many other situations.
So I think we should go back, listen to the dialogue for the last time and we'll be back
All right, so subscriptions, periodicals, all this is very common, as you said, in the
People get them through the mail every month, right?
And I have to say, it's changing now.
You know, we used to get subscriptions at home when I was a kid.
We'd have magazine subscriptions and even a newspaper subscription.
But these days, people are doing more and more on the internet.
So you don't see the guy with the subscriptions coming from, you know, going from door to
door to sell you this.
You do it yourself on the internet.
So it's pretty common that way.
Do you have any web subscriptions?
I haven't signed up for any periodicals on the web.
I do receive the newspaper every day and that's about it.
It's kind of hard to receive magazines where we are, but I am a big fan of magazines like
National Geographic or Popular Mechanics.
I had that when I was a kid.
My grandmother would always give us a subscription to National Geographic for Christmas.
It's a very good magazine and it's so colorful, full of pictures and really interesting articles,
not only about animals, but about the world in general.
So it's really cool.
And they always gave you a map that you could take out and open up and it was the best part
of the whole magazine.
So actually, I really enjoy having subscriptions to periodicals, magazines, newspapers.
Not a big fan of newsletters or things on the internet.
I kind of like to hold a magazine or take it with me if I'm on a trip.
Yeah, I totally agree.
So yeah, but I think many of our listeners may have a subscription to their local newspaper,
local magazines, or maybe as you said, internet subscriptions.
I know some people sign up for the Harvard Business Review that's available online or
even I think the New York Times has an online platform.
So you should let us know what subscriptions do you have, what periodicals do you like
to read.
Our website of course is EnglishPod.com.
You can also purchase a subscription there.
We hope to see you on the website and until next time.
My name is Catherine and we're on the road today.
We're traveling a little bit.
Today we have a lesson that was requested by one of our users and I think it's a very
handy lesson.
If we're traveling, we are buying tickets at a train station.
So I personally love traveling by train.
I think it's a very romantic way to see different countries, different places.
We're going to learn all about how to get tickets and how to talk about different parts
of a train.
So let's first listen to our dialogue.
Hi, I would like to purchase a one-way ticket to Brussels, please.
Certainly, sir.
This is our train schedule.
We have an express train departing every morning and an overnight train that departs at 9 p.m.
How long does it take to get there?
About 12 hours.
We currently have tickets available only for first class on the express train.
If you'd like, you can choose a sleeper on the overnight train, which is a bit less expensive.
Yeah, I think that's the best option.
Do you serve food on a train?
12 hours is such a long time.
There is a dining car towards the end of the train where they serve meals at all times.
We do provide complimentary water and coffee for all of our passengers.
Your train leaves from platform number 9 at 9 on the dot.
Remember to be here at least 30 minutes before your scheduled departure time or else you
might miss your train.
Have a great trip.
So now we're going to take a look at a couple of words that we've picked out for you on
So there are many different kinds of tickets you can purchase, you can buy for your train
journey.
The first time we're going to talk about is maybe the fastest.
This is called an express train.
So as the name says, it's an express train.
That means it's a very fast train.
And it depends because in different places, sometimes they call it the fast train, sometimes
they call it the express train.
But basically the idea is that it's a very fast train.
And it's fast usually because it stops very few times.
For example, if we want to go on the Paris to Berlin train, it won't stop in every single
town.
It will probably only stop a couple of times.
So apart from the express trains that usually they'll go in the daytime, we have an overnight
train.
Overnight trains are very fun, or at least they can be fun if you have a comfortable
place to sleep.
Basically the idea is you get on the train at night and you sleep on the train and you
get off in the morning.
It's actually a very popular way of traveling, especially if you're on a budget because you're
basically saving yourself one night of spending the night at a hotel.
So you're going to have to find a place to sleep if you're taking the overnight train.
There are usually different options.
The most uncomfortable is usually a seat, like a hard seat.
But there are oftentimes special cars on a train where you can sleep for these overnight
trips.
What are those called?
And those are called sleeper cars or you choose a sleeper seat.
So that's pretty easy to remember.
So you choose a sleep sleeper.
The sleeper seats are the seats that fold back like you're lying down.
But of course most places like China and India and Vietnam for example have actual cars that
have beds in them.
So you can, as the name says, you can actually sleep on this train.
Now if you're going to buy tickets, you're not going to find a sleeper train on an express
train or a train that travels during the day.
These are only available at night usually.
So a sleeper car is what you want to look for if you're traveling overnight.
And in those cases, you oftentimes get hungry.
You need to eat.
So where do you go to eat?
We're going to look for the dining car on the train.
So think about the word dining room.
Dining room, dining car, this means the place where you eat.
So we're going to look for a dining car and it's usually in the front of the train I think
and you can just go and get a quick meal over there.
Dining car.
And finally, we have another very important word here.
It's all about getting on and off the train.
So where do you do that?
Well, you go to the platform, the specific platform where your train is leaving.
So in this case, this guy has to go to platform number nine.
So usually that means that there is a cement or a stone block where you stand.
The train comes to the station.
People get off, you get on.
So the place where that all happens is the platform.
And remember that in airplanes or in airports, usually you look for a terminal.
For train stations, you're looking for a platform.
And that number is going to be very important.
So look at your ticket and find out which platform your train will be arriving or departing
So now why don't we review these words.
Let's listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back in a bit.
So we've got some really great phrases today on Fluency Builder, not that many of them
but they're very useful.
The first one is a kind of ticket you can buy.
We're looking for a one-way ticket to Brussels.
So a one-way ticket means you go to Brussels but you don't come home.
Maybe you have a flight later or you have a car waiting for you.
You don't need a return ticket on that train.
One-way ticket is the opposite of a round-trip ticket.
So usually, for example, if you live in New York and you're going on vacation, you're
going to buy a round-trip ticket because you need to go back to your city.
But in this case, we're getting a one-way ticket.
So we're just buying a ticket that will only take us there.
It's not going to bring us back.
One-way ticket.
And after that, we have a good question.
This is something we can ask in many, many different situations.
Here the person buying the ticket wants to know how long does it take to get there.
He's talking about Brussels.
So let's take a look at this structure.
We can say how long does it take to and then we can add another verb there.
So for example, we want to know the amount of time it is going to require.
For example, here we are asking how long does it take to get there, in this case to Brussels.
We're asking how much time is needed to go to Brussels, but what if we change the last
part?
Well, there's anything.
We could say anything here.
We could say how long does it take to bake a pizza?
Or for example, Marco, how long does it take for you to do your hair in the morning?
Like 20 seconds.
Not very long.
You could even change the name of the place you're going to.
So how long does it take to get to Beijing?
Exactly, so just remember this structure when you want to ask the amount of time needed.
Of course, there are other ways and sometimes it's very common to make a little bit of mistakes
saying how much time to Beijing or something like this.
Or how many hours.
We don't really say that in English.
We say how much time.
So how much time does it take?
And what about when the person that's selling the ticket said, okay, the train leaves from
platform number nine at nine on the dot?
Okay, so I'm not really sure where this idea of a dot comes from, but I think it has to
do with clocks.
So basically when you look at a clock and all of a sudden the hand comes to 12, so it's
nine o'clock, the hand is on the 12, that is on the dot.
That means exactly.
Okay, so the train is leaving at nine zero zero, not nine 30, not nine 15.
It's leaving exactly at nine o'clock.
So we can also say this in normal speech when we're talking to our friends.
I could say, Marco, we're going to leave at six on the dot.
Any later and we'll miss the movie.
But when you say on the dot, you're usually emphasizing that it leaves promptly.
It's not going to be late and you're kind of emphasizing a person to be on time.
Yes, please don't be late because, so nine oh one or in my case, six oh four, these are
not okay because they're too late.
So I'm going to pick you up at four o'clock on the dot.
Usually means I don't really want to wait, so please be ready at four.
All right, so on the dot.
All right, so now let's listen to our dialogue for the last time and we'll be back to talk
We have an express train departing every morning and an overnight train that departs at nine
PM.
Great, I'll take it.
Your train leaves from platform number nine at nine on the dot.
All right, so you mentioned you really like to travel on trains.
Well, I like that trains are kind of slow.
Many trains are slow.
Some trains, as we said, like express trains are faster.
But if you're traveling in a new place, it's a wonderful way to see the country because
maybe you're going from one city to another city.
Well, it's nice to see what's in between cities.
So that's why I like to be on trains.
I actually also really enjoy taking the overnight trains because I sometimes get a little bit
uncomfortable if I travel for too long, for example, on an airplane or a car.
So if I fall asleep and I wake up where I wanted to go, it's really nice.
Well, and I think it's nice also to be kind of rolled asleep, you know, lulled asleep
by the train.
Have you had any like very memorable train experiences?
Traveling around, I have met some interesting people and actually they, you know, local
So they start talking to you and really curious because obviously you're a foreigner in their
country and try to get to know you and maybe even give you a little bit of advice.
And if you don't speak the language, it's even a little bit more interesting because
you're trying to communicate and you pick up a lot of words.
I actually heard some really interesting stories from people who took the Trans-Siberian Railway
from Beijing to Moscow.
They said the more vodka you drink, the more foreign languages you speak.
So I don't know if any of our users have done that.
You guys should let us know if you have any fun train travel experiences.
I know Marco certainly has some.
I've got some of my own.
So we'll all have to share on our website, EnglishPod.com.
And if you have any other questions, we'll see you guys there.
Bye-bye for now.
My name is Catherine and today we're going to continue in our series about job interviews.
And on this occasion we're taking a look at part five of our interview series where we
explain why we left our previous job.
Okay, and so in an interview, this is a very popular question.
Why did you leave your last job?
Learn some tools for answering this question in today's dialogue.
We're going to take a listen to it first and we'll be back in a moment.
Okay, now I'd like to find out more about your last job.
I see you spent almost four years at the London Weekly.
To be honest, the first year was quite tough for me.
I was really just treated more like an intern.
I didn't have many responsibilities and I found it quite frustrating.
So, what changed?
Well, slowly but surely I proved myself and the new editor liked me so he promoted me
to Features Writer.
Wow, a real step up.
Yes, I was responsible for restaurant and food reviews mostly.
I spent three years in that position.
But to be honest, it wasn't an area of journalism I wanted to stay in long term.
So why did you decide to leave finally?
I just felt that the paper couldn't offer me any new opportunities.
I really needed a more challenging role to be honest.
Alright, we're back and as we saw, Rebecca handled it quite well explaining why you left
your last job because obviously you don't want to say something like, I just really
didn't like my company or the boss was a really bad guy.
Or I was fired for being lazy.
So, why don't we take a look at a couple of different words on Language Takeaway.
Okay, so we've got some great descriptive words here.
These are some adjectives.
The first one is tough.
So Rebecca said, to be honest, the first year was quite tough for me.
Alright, so she's describing that her first year at that company where she was working,
it was tough and that means hard, difficult.
You could say, this is a really tough situation.
That means it's a difficult situation.
It's hard because there's no easy answer.
So, if you describe something as tough, it means that it's very difficult.
Now there is another meaning to this where it can be that you are a strong person.
So that's different because we're talking about a person, not a situation.
But if you're talking about a job or an experience or even homework, like this homework is really
tough, it means that it's very hard.
So apart from her job being a little bit tough, she said that it was also a little bit frustrating.
Okay, so usually these things go together.
If something is tough, like it's difficult, it's usually frustrating too.
So in this case, something is frustrating when it makes you unhappy or for example,
it makes you feel stressed.
So something that's frustrating is not a good thing.
So as you gave the example with the homework assignment, if you have maybe a math assignment
that's very difficult and you can't solve it, you don't find the solution, then you
get frustrated.
You get maybe angry at yourself or you get very angry for not being able to solve it.
So that's when something is frustrating.
I hate being frustrated.
Well, it's not a nice feeling.
But she said that, well, it was frustrating, it was tough, but after a while, I proved
myself.
Okay, so that means that she was able to show someone that she can handle difficult things,
difficult work, difficult situations.
And so she said, I proved myself and the new editor liked me.
So basically, she did a really good job.
So if you prove yourself, you're showing someone that you have great ability or capabilities
of solving a problem or being able to handle a difficult job.
So you could say, last year, Bob didn't do very well at school, but this year, he really
proved himself.
He studied hard and he got really good grades.
And well, Rebecca, what she got in exchange for proving herself, she got promoted.
So promotions are good things.
The verb here is to promote or to be promoted.
So in this case, she was promoted.
You could say, last year, I was promoted or he will be promoted next week.
He doesn't know yet.
Now, remember that to be promoted means to get a better position in your job.
Now, as we mentioned, the verb is to promote and you may be asking yourself why we are
using the verb to be in the past, was promoted.
And this is because it's an ed adjective.
It's an adjective that ends in ed.
So you may think it's a verb, but it's not.
It's actually an adjective.
The verb here is to be.
So I was promoted.
So was is obviously our verb here, the verb to be, but promoted is an adjective that ends
in ed.
And so if I'm the boss, the action I do, the verb I do is I promote someone.
So this can be a little bit tricky, but we recommend that you check out the website for
more details because we have lots of examples of how to use this.
Well, she got promoted and well, she was really happy for a while, but then she said, you
know what, I really needed a more challenging role, a more challenging job.
Challenging is a great adjective.
It means something is difficult or it gives you a challenge.
So that means it's not easy.
So she found that her job was a little bit too easy.
So she wanted something a little bit more challenging.
And so this is a really great word for job interviews in particular, because you're basically
saying, I want hard work.
I want to prove myself.
There we go again.
So I want to show you that I'm a good employee or a hard worker.
And so I want a challenge, something that's hard.
So something that is hard is a challenge or you want something challenging.
So why don't we review these words that we've taken a look at now.
Let's go back to the dialogue and listen to it again.
Now I'd like to find out more about your last job.
So what changed?
Well slowly but surely I proved myself and the new editor liked me.
So he promoted me to features writer.
A real step up.
I was responsible for restaurant and food reviews.
Mostly I spent three years in that position.
So now let's take a look at a couple of phrases we picked out for you on Fluency Builder.
Okay, this first phrase is unusual because it actually happens at the end of sentences.
This is very, very common with people who are making small talk or who are doing interviews.
This is the phrase, is that right?
So basically you saw that in the first line Mr. Parsons was talking to her and said, well,
So he's ending the sentence with this phrase.
So he's making the sentence a question.
I see that you did this.
So he's asking her to confirm the fact that he knows about her because maybe they've never
really talked before.
So this is a good way for him to ask her to give more details.
So for example, Marco, I hear that you're from Ecuador.
So apart from ending the sentence like this, if maybe somebody asks you, is that right?
You have to confirm.
You have to say, yes, that's right.
Or yes.
It's also good to elaborate, to give more details.
So yes, I'm from Ecuador.
I was born there, but I've lived in the United States.
This is a way to give more information because that's basically what the person's asking.
Yeah, I think it wouldn't be very good if you're at a job interview and the person says,
is that right?
And you say, yes, that's right.
And then you don't say anything else.
So yeah, basically the point is you have to confirm or deny.
You have to say, yes, that's right or no, that's not right.
And then you have to give some information about the question.
Now, moving on, when Rebecca again was talking about her job, she was saying it's tough and
So this is like lost and found.
Like I lost my hat and I found it later.
This is what's interesting about this verb, find.
We are not actually looking for something or we didn't actually find something we were
looking for.
This is kind of a realization, right?
It's like a feeling.
So I find this movie boring.
That means I think this movie is boring.
It's the way that you're thinking about something.
Or you can say, oh, I found Paris to be quite an expensive city.
Yeah, pretty expensive.
So this is your impression.
This is the way that you feel about something.
So this is another way that you can use this word to find.
Now again, when Rebecca talked about proving herself, she used a very interesting, I would
say phrase, a very popular well-known phrase, slowly but surely.
So slowly but surely is the opposite of right away.
So something that happens right away is immediate.
Like I got promoted right away.
But slowly but surely means after lots of time and even hard work, this good thing happened.
Or it's usually a good thing, actually.
You're basically saying that you didn't do anything very quickly, but you did it very
So slowly but surely, I finished building my home.
So it didn't happen overnight, but it did happen over time.
You can also say this about studying a language.
At the beginning, learning English was really hard, but slowly but surely, I became fluent.
So slowly but surely.
And the last phrase that we have for you today, you may have seen that Rebecca used this phrase,
to be honest, a couple of times before explaining something.
So why does she say to be honest?
To be honest is sometimes something we say in English to fill some space or some time.
We call it filler.
But it's also a way to introduce something that's negative.
So for example, in this dialogue, she's talking about her negative experiences.
My job was tough.
My experience was bad.
So she says, to be honest, it wasn't the best experience, but I learned from it.
She's saying this to introduce some things that are maybe not positive, not happy things.
So it's another way of saying, look, I'm going to tell you the truth.
It may not be something positive, but this is what happened.
So to be honest, I didn't really like my last employer or something like that.
We can even talk about this with your friends.
So hey, Marco, did you like that movie Shutter Island?
To be honest, I didn't really see it.
I fell asleep.
Or you could say, to be honest, I didn't love it.
I didn't really like it.
So it's a very good phrase, but don't overuse it.
I think sometimes you get into the habit of using it all the time and just like, like,
you know, well, you know, like I went to the movies like yesterday, like, and like, to
be honest, like, so try to keep these fillers as you described them to a minimum.
So don't really use them too much.
Say thoughts and ideas.
Nice action verbs, not too much fillers, because sometimes, especially in an interview,
it makes people think that you don't really know much to say.
So listen to the dialogue for the last time and we'll be back to chat a little bit more.
Well slowly but surely I proved myself and the new editor liked me so he promoted me
Alright so talking about your last employer, this is a pretty ideal thing.
Now do you have any advice that you can give our listeners about describing your last job?
Why did you leave your previous employer?
Well I do have a little bit of basic job advice.
I would say don't complain about your last employer.
Don't say my boss was mean, my co-workers were lazy, my company was terrible because
usually as a person doing an interview, that makes you think that this person, if they
work for you, will complain about you.
And so I think it's important like what Rebecca does in this dialogue to keep it positive.
Every negative situation can become a positive experience.
So the job was tough but it was a good challenge, right?
Or but she learned how to do many new things.
I think this is important for anybody in any language but in English especially to use
some of these phrases and to say, you know, I really like a challenge or I didn't feel
this was challenging enough, things like this.
As opposed to, my old boss is so mean, he made me work on the weekends, that company
is so terrible.
I mean that kind of stuff no one wants to hear.
Yeah exactly and I think it's not really useful because even if the company is the competitor,
so you don't really get any extra points for giving them like the dirty secrets of what
was going on in the company.
Maybe saying, oh my co-workers, they were just so mean to me and stuff like this.
Yeah, no, it makes you seem like a complainer and no one wants to hire a complainer.
Alright so this is an interesting topic we would like to hear from you.
So come to EnglishPod.com and tell us why did you leave your previous employer?
Or just let us know about some of your interview experiences or some of your interview questions.
We're happy to help you out.
We'll hope to see you at the website.
Alright we'll see you there.
Shannon Jonesiffs3
My name is Catherine and today we've got another lesson all about food and eating.
So today we're going to talk about all the tools that we use when we're at the table.
So what we use when we're eating.
So let's take a listen to today's dialogue and when we come back, we'll talk about some
of these words and some of the great phrases you're learning today.
Honey, can you set the table?
Well, I'm sure.
What are we having for dinner?
Do I need to put anything out in particular?
Well, make sure to put out the pepper and salt shakers.
I don't know if your brother is coming tonight, so set an extra place mat just in case.
Should I use the fancy silverware?
Yeah, go ahead.
Forks, spoons, and knives.
I roasted some meat, so be sure to put out some steak knives as well.
I'll also set some cups and sauces for some coffee after dinner.
Honey, have you seen our soup bowls?
They're in the cupboard where you keep the gravy boat and serving dishes.
Just be careful because the wine glasses are also there.
Oops.
So now let's take a look at a couple of words in language takeaway.
So our first word is a very important one.
You might have heard it before.
The word is silverware.
Okay, silverware.
Now this means that it's usually made something that's made out of silver, right?
It could be.
Maybe traditionally it's made out of silver, but it doesn't have to be.
You could have wooden silverware or other metals.
It's basically the things that you use to eat food with.
Okay, so we're going to take this as a category.
There are all the tools that we use to eat food with.
So for example, a fork is a part of a silverware.
It's a kind of silverware, fork.
A fork is the one that you usually put in your mouth with a piece of lettuce or meat
Okay, so it's pointy.
It has like four little points.
Now the one that we use to have dessert or to have soup with, we call that a spoon.
A spoon, that's right.
So to eat yogurt or ice cream, you use a spoon.
And finally, to cut things, you use a knife.
Okay, so in the dialogue we saw the plural form, knives, but singular it would be knife.
And sometimes there are foods that are very, very hard to cut.
For example, steak is very hard to cut because it's a tough meat.
And so in that case, we use a steak knife to cut it.
Okay, so we have a knife or a steak knife.
Steak knife more specifically is used to cut meats.
All right, so these are three kinds or actually four kinds of silverware.
Of course, there are other kinds, but those are the most important.
After that though, we have something that's important for making your food taste better.
So what if I want to add salt or pepper?
What are those things called?
Those are called salt and pepper shakers.
We saw them in the dialogue that we need to put out the pepper and salt shakers.
So the little thing where you keep the salt is called a shaker.
That's right, because the action, the verb is to shake.
That means moving your hand up and down so some salt will fall out onto your food.
So usually it's only salt and pepper that we keep in these things, in these little shakers.
But apart from salt and pepper shakers and all the silverware we're putting out, we're
also putting out some saucers because we're going to have coffee later on.
Okay, so this normally goes together with cups, cups and saucers, but everyone knows
what a cup is.
What is a saucer?
So a saucer is this little plate that you put under the cup when you're having coffee.
So usually that's where you keep your spoon or maybe the little bag of tea.
Okay, so a saucer is important because it also helps in case you spill some coffee or
tea so the coffee or tea doesn't go on the ground, it goes on the plate.
So that little plate is called a saucer.
Now where do we keep all the plates, all the silverware?
We usually keep them in a cupboard.
Okay, so you might want to say cupboard because it's cup, C-U-P-B-O-A-R-D.
That's not right.
The word is pronounced cupboard.
Okay, so even though it may seem like you should pronounce cupboard, the correct pronunciation
is cupboard.
Cupboard.
And a cupboard, like you said, is usually in the dining room or the kitchen because
it houses, it keeps all of our plates and bowls and sometimes our silverware.
Okay, so actually in the cupboard we also have some other things, dishes.
Specifically we have a gravy boat in there.
Okay, so I'm not even sure why they call it a boat, but a gravy boat is basically a special
dish.
It's like a tall bowl with a spout so you can pour it that keeps gravy.
So gravy is like a liquid or a sauce that goes on top of meat or potatoes.
I guess it kind of looks like a boat.
Just imagine a boat, but inside it's empty.
So then that's where you put the gravy in.
You pour it.
You can pour it.
All right, and so we can find that.
We can also find serving dishes, which are basically big plates or bowls that we use
when we're having dinner at the dinner table to keep, for example, a turkey or a roast.
And specifically we were also looking for wine glasses.
Well, maybe we weren't looking for them, but they found us because the person getting stuff
out of the cupboard dropped some wine glasses.
These are very, very easy to break.
Wine glasses are basically just glasses that maybe are tall and you drink wine out of them.
So there are specific type of glass usually used to drink wine.
So wine glasses, I guess a normal glass that you use to drink maybe juice or water is just
called a glass.
So you can't use a wine glass only when you're drinking wine.
So we've taken a look at a lot of vocab here, a lot of tools that we use at the dinner table
when we're having dinner.
So let's listen to the dialogue again and review.
I don't know if your brother is coming tonight.
So set an extra place mat just in case.
I'll also set some cups and saucers for some coffee after dinner.
Just be careful because the wine glasses are also the...
So now we have four key phrases that we've prepared for you on Fluency Builder.
So this first phrase is very important, especially as a child.
Your mother or father might ask you to do this.
The phrase is to set the table.
So that's a phrasal verb, to set the table.
And what does it mean if you're asked to set the table?
It means you will put down the plates and the silverware and the bowls so that everything
is prepared for dinner.
So this is actually what we were doing and a complementary phrasal verb to this.
When you're setting the table, as you said, you are putting down or putting out the different
spoons, knives, dishes, all that stuff.
So the verbal phrase to put out means to place down or to make sure that you get something
out on the table.
In this case, my mother would usually ask me to put out extra glasses for water.
Or don't forget to put out the wine glasses in case we're drinking wine.
It just means to place down.
So just remember that we use it because all these things, they're inside the cupboard.
So you have to take them out.
So you have to put them out on the table.
And sometimes we may have a guest or we may need an extra chair or an extra seat because
we are having company and the person in dialogue said to set an extra placemat just in case.
So placemat is basically a piece of plastic or maybe fabric that you put in front of a
person when they're at the table.
So it's on the table and it's something that protects the table.
So it's small.
Everyone has one and the bowl and the silverware will go on top of that placemat.
But it also indicates that that is where someone will sit.
So to set out or to set out an extra placemat means to prepare an extra place for someone
else who will be coming.
So if you have a guest, for example, you'll set out an extra placemat for him or for her.
So we can say set an extra placemat because this is by this we are referring that somebody
is going to sit down at the table or you can just simply say set an extra place for someone.
Set an extra place.
Your older brother is coming home from college tonight.
So you set an extra place for him at the table.
And well, in this case, we didn't know if the brother was really coming or not.
So she said just in case.
This is a great phrase, one that you'll hear all the time.
It means I'm not sure what the result will be or what the outcome will be.
But in case something happens or just in case we should do this.
So for example, Marco, I think it's going to rain today.
You should bring an umbrella just in case.
So this is a way of saying you're preventing something.
You're prepared.
Maybe if it does rain, you'll have an umbrella just in case.
Bring your umbrella.
A lot of vocab.
So why don't we listen to the dialogue for the last time.
So set an extra placemat just in case.
So talking about dinner and silverware, there are also a couple of other names that we didn't
mention.
For example, many people refer to ceramic plates as china.
Yeah, these are usually the fancy kinds of plates and dishes that you have in your house.
Obviously, if you have just kind of the cheap ceramics that you can throw away or even paper
plates, those aren't very important.
But at a wedding or in a special occasion, a person or a family might receive chinaware,
china.
And that is very nice, very pretty porcelain plates or just lacquerware.
Okay, so you can call it chinaware, which is basically plates that are either very fine
ceramic or porcelain, as you said.
Or what was the other word that you said before?
Lacquerware.
Lacquerware is a certain kind of plate or ceramic that has a kind of sheen to it.
It's very special, kind of basically paint job.
Yeah, because it's always been kind of strange the fact that a name like china would also
now be related to plates.
But apparently, I guess because Chinese porcelain is renowned as being such high quality, I
guess this is why now we just have a word for it called china or chinaware.
I think it actually has to do with the fact that the Chinese in the old days sold, well,
most of the British bought their porcelain from China.
And so it was very, very in vogue, it was very popular.
And it was basically the only thing that the British wanted.
They just wanted all of this china.
And it became a part of the vocabulary then.
Yeah, it's really strange though that you would call something china.
It's like, I don't know any other country that you call something, you know, like French.
This is a French or Frenchware.
I can't think of any.
Limoges is the name of a city in France and it's a certain kind of ceramics.
Oh, there you go.
There are many other tools that we didn't mention like salad fork and ice cream spoon.
And sometimes if you go to a fancy dinner, you will have maybe three spoons, three knives,
three forks and you don't know what to do with it.
Start on the outside and go in.
That's my one recommendation.
So we're really curious to know what you have to say.
If you have any questions, you can leave them there.
Or if you also want to suggest a topic for a lesson or anything you want, just let us
We'll see you then.
My name is Kathryn and today we've got a monologue.
We've got one person talking, telling you how to make the perfect sandwich.
She's a chef and she's going to teach us.
She's going to talk about all the ingredients and some tips on how to make a sandwich.
So be prepared.
This is going to be a really good lesson.
And I'm already hungry thinking about it.
Welcome to our show.
Today I'm going to show you how to make the perfect mouthwatering sandwich.
Let's start with the basics.
Bread.
Bread is an important ingredient here.
You need to remember one thing.
Use the bread according to the following criteria, freshness, crumb and color.
If you want a closed sandwich, I recommend you first toast your bread in a toaster or
oven or grill it slightly until it gets a light brown color.
Now that our bread is ready, let's talk about the ingredients.
Of course, each person's palate is different, but I'm going to give you a few tips that
you'll be able to use when turning any sandwich into the perfect sandwich.
I would strongly recommend you put fresh vegetables in your sandwich.
Do not undervalue them as they play a big role in forming the taste and will make the
sandwich more refreshing and light.
The best choices here are evident.
Cucumbers, tomatoes, onions, sweet pepper or chili, lettuce, and of course herbs.
You can't go wrong with them.
As for aubergines, mushrooms and asparagus, I would recommend you first grill them slightly
with a little touch of olive oil.
Last but not least, we have a wide variety of condiments that we can add to our perfect
sandwich.
We can be subtle and add just a touch of salt and pepper, or we can combine mustard sauce,
mayonnaise, ketchup, or even caviar to achieve a stronger flavor.
It's always a good idea to cut your sandwich in triangles or manageable pieces to avoid
all your ingredients falling out and staining your shirt.
That's all the time we have for today, but join us next time where we'll be going over
how to make the perfect lasagna.
Till next time!
So, obviously, I think she knows what she's talking about.
This is going to be a great sandwich.
Alright, so she mentioned a lot of ingredients, a couple of different words that we might
not understand.
So, let's take a look at them now in Language Takeaway.
Okay, so let's go.
There's a lot of ingredients in this sandwich.
You can see the ingredients.
So, let's go ahead and take a look at the ingredients.
Alright, so we have the ingredients here.
We have the bread, we have the butter, we have the onions.
We have the tomatoes.
We have the lettuce.
We have the onions.
We have some different synonyms that we might not know.
So, we need to go through the synorms that we might not know.
And she mentioned the word crumb.
Okay, yeah. She said freshness, crumb and color.
So what does she mean by crumb of the bread?
Okay, so crumb, a crumb is a very, very, very, very, very small piece of bread.
Like when you put bread in a toaster, maybe it's what falls down actually.
We call them bread crumbs sometimes.
You can cook with them.
But they're basically little pieces of bread that fall off, little grains.
Okay, yeah. So, yeah, usually it happens all the time.
You're having cookies or you're having some bread, you bite into it and little pieces of bread or cookie fall down.
Those are called crumbs.
That's right. And this is a very...
And I want to remind everyone that the word crumb has a B on the end.
C-R-U-M-B. But we don't pronounce the B. We just say crumb.
Yeah, you don't say crumb.
Okay, so just crumb.
Yeah, be careful with that one.
All right. So we have to keep a look out for the crumb of the bread.
I guess how fresh and how... Sometimes when you squeeze bread, it makes a nice little sound.
Crunch, crunch.
But she's also recommending a couple of different ingredients.
And she said, well, it depends on each person's palate.
So after we've chosen our bread, she talks about a closed sandwich and maybe toasting it.
Okay, so there are two options for sandwiches.
You might see these on menus as well as when you're cooking yourself.
A closed sandwich means you have two pieces of bread, one on the bottom and one on top.
It's closed.
But the opposite is an open sandwich.
That means you only have one piece of bread and then maybe you have some meat on top.
Oh, okay. Actually, I always thought that for it to be a sandwich, you had to have two pieces of bread.
Well, now when you... I would challenge you to look on Google for open-faced sandwich or open sandwich.
You'll find some very interesting things.
Yeah, I've had them.
Actually, you can put some meat and some cheese just on top of a piece of bread and you're done.
I'm a huge fan of those.
So that's a closed sandwich, though, when you have two pieces of bread and the meat in the middle.
And after that, she talks a little bit about people's tastes and what people want.
But she used a very special word.
She said each person's palate is different.
Okay, a palate in the context of food and taste means the way that food flavors affect a person individually.
So sometimes you say that some people have very good palate so they can maybe tell the difference between a wine from 1978 and a wine from 1980 or something like that.
So you can have a palate, a good palate for wine, but also in this case, we're talking about food.
I could say I have a very sensitive palate so I don't like to use very, very strong flavors.
So the palate is basically your taste.
It's actually a physical part of your mouth.
It's the top of your mouth where your tongue can touch the top of your mouth.
The roof of your mouth, exactly.
It's not just your ability to taste sweet.
It's sweet and salty and sour and all these different flavors.
So a person's palate.
Now, herbs, right?
Now, moving on to the main ingredients.
You mentioned a lot of easy ones like tomatoes, onions, lettuce, but then we got into a little bit more specific things like, for example, this word that's always mispronounced, herbs.
Actually, you can say herbs.
It's a very British thing to do though.
Americans and Canadians say herbs.
It has an H in the front.
That's why it's confusing.
So we can accept basically if somebody says herbs, but I guess in American English, it's more commonly pronounced as a silent H.
That's right, herbs.
Herbs.
And what are herbs, you might be asking.
Well, herbs can come in many different shapes and sizes.
They're usually green.
They're usually grown.
They're ways of giving food different flavors.
And so basil, for example, is an herb.
It's a big green leaf, something that we use in pesto, for example.
You can also have rosemary or mint.
These are all kinds of herbs.
Some people even have an herb garden.
They grow their own herbs.
So now moving on to these weird-looking vegetables, for example, aubergines.
Aubergines are the same as eggplants.
So you might hear this word sometimes.
It's basically a big purple vegetable.
So for those of you who haven't seen an aubergine or an eggplant, yeah, it's a big purple vegetable.
It kind of looks like a cucumber but a little bit fatter.
Very fat.
And if you hold them, they're not very hard.
They're kind of soft.
And a lot of people like to grill these or to cook with them in, for example, Chinese
where there's a lot of eggplant or aubergines.
So we've had those.
We have mushrooms.
And what about asparagus?
Asparagus is actually one of my favorite foods but it's very strange-looking.
It's kind of green and it kind of has this little head, right?
It's long.
It's green.
It's kind of like a pencil.
But at the very top, it's kind of like a plant almost.
They have a very strong taste and many people don't like asparagus.
And the Germans, I think, actually, Germans and the Dutch have special asparagus that's white.
It's called Spargel.
But if any of you know what that is, it's basically a white asparagus.
But asparagus is very popular in a lot of parts of the world.
So now we have our vegetables.
We have our bread.
But now we need to add a little bit of extra flavor to the sandwich.
So this is where we add some condiments.
So condiments are a category.
You can have many different kinds of condiments.
The most common are salt and pepper.
So a condiment is a category of the things that you would add flavor to, as you said, salt, pepper.
But here they mention, for example, mayonnaise or ketchup.
Oh, and mustard as well.
These are all condiments.
So in different parts of the world, they have different kinds of condiments.
I've seen, for example, a lot of vinegar in Asia.
You can also have hot pepper flakes like in Europe.
The condiments that you add to your sandwich are varied.
I've seen people put all types of condiments in their sandwich.
And, for example, one that may be a little bit strange or maybe a little bit more expensive condiment is caviar.
So caviar is not always considered a condiment.
It can be, but it can also be eaten alone.
But it's basically just fish eggs.
They're little fish eggs.
Very small.
It always usually, in people's mind, it's kind of like a fancy food, very luxurious, very expensive.
Well, it can be very expensive if you get like beluga caviar.
A lot of caviar comes from the Caucasus and Russia and Ukraine, these places.
And it's very, very salty in flavor.
So that is also considered a condiment in our case because we're using it for a sandwich, right?
So a lot of words there, a lot of interesting things going on in our sandwich.
Why don't we move on now to Fluency Builder where we're going to take a look at some phrases.
So let's go back to the very beginning of the dialogue when she said, all right, let's start with the basics.
The basics is a set phrase in this context.
We can say this about many different things, but the basics basically refers to the most simple ingredients or the most simple elements.
In this case, bread or meat.
But you can also talk about the basics in other contexts like clothes shopping.
Like when school started when I was a kid, my mom always used to buy me the basics.
So T-shirts and socks.
So I guess the basics are the absolute necessary things.
And also very simple.
So for example, if you talk about dancing, the basics would be maybe a certain sequence of steps that important, essential.
And would caviar be a part of the basics, for example?
No, that's an extra.
So this is what we refer to when we say the basics.
Now our chef, when she continued talking about her sandwich, she said, I would strongly recommend you use fresh vegetables in your sandwich.
Okay, so you can say I would recommend this, but to strongly recommend is to have a very, very strong feeling about something.
You're saying to the person basically do it.
You must.
So if maybe your friend is sick, you can say something like, I would strongly recommend you go to the doctor today.
That means you really, really should go to the doctor.
I would be upset if you didn't.
It's kind of formal though.
It seems like you would maybe use it with your boss or maybe with a person you don't really know that well, but with your friend you would say, I really think you should go to the doctor.
But you can say it in both contexts, but yeah, definitely more of a formal thing.
So we strongly recommend that you, yeah, okay.
All right, so now for our last phrase, right?
Last but not least.
So now moving on to our next phrase, when she started talking about the condiment, she said, last but not least, we have a wide variety of condiments.
Okay, this is a very, very common phrase.
It's a set phrase.
You will hear these words together very often.
What could this possibly mean?
So obviously last means the last step here.
The last point.
But why not least?
Well, it's not least important.
Just because it's last, it doesn't mean that it's not important.
Okay, so maybe there are many people who have to give presentations in school and I'm the very, very last person to go.
The teacher will say, last but not least, Catherine.
Makes me feel better.
Because you're saying you're last, but it doesn't mean you're not important.
So when you want to make sure that the last point of your presentation or what you're talking about is not ignored or you just want to make sure that everyone knows that it's also very important,
you say, last but not least.
All right, and now last but not least, the end of Fluency Builder.
We're going to close off with this little phrase.
When she was talking about salt and pepper, she said, a touch of salt and pepper.
Okay, a touch of salt and pepper is basically a measure.
It's not a lot.
It's very little amount of salt and pepper.
So we can say a touch.
So it's not really a specific quantity though, right?
We're not saying like a spoon of salt and pepper.
It basically means a little bit.
So you're just saying, maybe you'll hear this in maybe a cooking show or you'll read it in books when they'll say a pinch of salt or a touch of salt or a dash of salt.
You could even say it about other things.
For example, if my friend just wrote this article and he wanted me to read it, I say, it's a really good article, but it could use a touch of humor.
I think maybe if you made it a little bit funny, it would be better.
Or maybe if you're painting your house, you can say, oh, I think a touch of red paint would look really nice on this wall.
That's right. A little bit of red paint would be good.
Okay. So a touch of, a really, really good phrase.
It makes you sound very natural.
Okay, so that's all the time we have for today.
But before we go, let's listen to the dialogue again.
Today, I'm going to show you how to make the perfect mouthwatering sandwich.
Choose the bread according to the following criteria.
Freshness, crumb, and color.
If you want a closed sandwich, I recommend you first toast your bread in a toaster or oven or grill it slightly until it gets a light brown color.
Of course, each person's palate is different, but I'm going to give you a few tips that you'll be able to use when turning any sandwich into the perfect sandwich.
Do not undervalue them as they play a big role in forming the taste and will make the sandwich more refreshing and light.
Cucumbers, tomatoes, onions, sweet pepper or chili, lettuce, and of course, herbs.
As for aubergines, mushrooms, and asparagus, I would recommend you first grill them slightly with a little touch of olive oil.
Last but not least, we have a wide variety of condiments that we can add to our perfect sandwich.
We can be subtle and add just a touch of salt and pepper, or we can combine mustard sauce, mayonnaise, ketchup, or even caviar to achieve a stronger flavor.
It's always a good idea to cut your sandwich in triangles or manageable pieces to avoid all your ingredients falling out and staining your shirt.
That's all the time we have for today, but join us next time where we'll be going over how to make the perfect lasagna.
Alright, so talking about sandwich, this really reminds me of making sandwiches at home.
Grilled cheese sandwich. We didn't really talk about it here, but I think it's my favorite sandwich.
The grilled cheese sandwich.
It's very easy to make. Just two pieces of bread and cheese inside.
Do you use butter, though?
So you have to butter the bread, and so when you grill it, it gets really nice and brown.
Actually, I'm not a very big sandwich fan when I'm having, for example, a meal like lunch.
I don't know. I think I need something more solid than just a sandwich at times.
Interesting. I had a sandwich for dinner last night.
I had an egg salad sandwich.
So you had egg salad inside two pieces of bread.
That's right, but the bread I had was French bread, so that long, thin bread was very crunchy, very delicious.
But actually, I like sandwiches for dinner.
They are a little bit lighter.
When you're having a big meal, it just seems like, although maybe sometimes places give you very big, heavy sandwiches
that have ham and salami and just a lot of things in there, so they're very, very filling.
That's very true. Like a meatball sub, for example, is a very heavy sandwich.
But sandwiches come in all shapes and sizes. You can make basically any sandwich that your brain can think of.
And so we hope that you've learned some words for talking about sandwiches today.
Of course, if you have any questions or comments or you want to share with us your very favorite sandwich,
you should do so on EnglishPod.com.
My name is Katherine.
And as you probably noticed on our website, this is one of many different parts of a series
all about having an interview in English.
This is a job interview and at this point we're at about part 7.
So today what we're going to talk about is the key question whenever you're having a
job interview is they ask you to describe your key strengths.
And this is our word for vocabulary preview today so let's take a look at it.
Okay, so you might have heard the word strength before.
This is something that you're good at.
And so key strength or key strengths, plural, would be things that you think are most important
about you as far as the things that you do well.
So as we mentioned, your boss or your potential boss might ask you to describe your key strengths.
So you're going to mention a lot of adjectives, positive adjectives saying how good of a worker
So why don't we listen to our dialogue.
Let's see what Rebecca has to say about her key strengths and we'll look at those in a
Okay, Rebecca.
Now you've given me a good idea of your work and academic background but what about you
as a person?
How would you describe your key strengths?
Well Mr. Parsons, as I mentioned before, I'm someone who needs new challenges.
I'm really focused and hardworking.
I think my academic results prove this.
Yes, true.
But how about other personal qualities?
Well I believe I'm a good team player but I can also work well independently.
I'm very enthusiastic and well, I hope my colleagues would agree, I'm fun to work with.
What would you say is your most positive quality?
That's a tough question but I would have to say my passion.
I'm really passionate about journalism and passionate about my career.
All right so she obviously has a lot of good key strengths.
Why don't we analyze a couple of those on Language Takeaway.
So one of the first things that Rebecca mentions is that she's really focused.
Okay, so this word focused, what does this mean?
All right, so if a person is focused, basically you're saying that you concentrate on your
That's right and someone who's focused might be very good in a noisy office or in a place
that is full of distractions like you said because they don't stop their work and think
about the noise or move around or go talk to people.
Someone who is focused just sits down and can do a lot of work all at once.
That's right, so she describes herself as focused and hardworking.
So hardworking means basically what it sounds like, that someone works very hard.
That means they put in a lot of hours, they get their work done, they're really, really
dependable.
That's right, so as you can see we use the word hardworking together.
So if you work hard, you don't say I work hard.
You can say that but if you want to use it as an adjective, you say I am hardworking.
The opposite of course would be lazy.
Okay, so we're focused, we're hardworking and she also said that she is a good team
Okay, this is a really key phrase here because it's something that employers, so people who
are hiring new staff like to look out for because most jobs you don't work alone.
You work with other people and so a team player is someone who works well in a group or works
well with others.
That's right, so a team player, everyone wants to have a good team player working for their
team, for their company.
And apart from being a good team player, you also want to be enthusiastic.
That's right, so this means that you are interested in what you do, you are excited about it.
It's not like oh God, I have to do this report.
It's like oh wow, I get to do this report, I'm enthusiastic, I'm really interested, I'm
going to put a lot of energy into it.
So being an enthusiastic person not only can be about working, you can be enthusiastic
about anything, about painting your house, about going on a trip.
Exactly, enthusiastic.
Alright and our last word for language, takeaway is also a good quality to have if you are
passionate about what you do or what you're doing.
So someone who is passionate about something really, really likes that thing.
That means that they love to do it or love to see it.
Passion is the opposite of not interested.
So you're really, really emotional and excited and interested in something.
That's right, so you are passionate about something.
It comes from the noun passion, so you have a passion for painting, maybe you love to
paint.
So you're very passionate about painting.
So a lot of great adjectives there to describe yourself in a good way.
Why don't we listen to our dialogue again and we'll be back with Fluency Builder.
Okay Rebecca, now you've given me a good idea of your work and academic background,
but what about you as a person?
Well I believe I'm a good team player, but I can also work well independently.
Hmm, that's a tough question.
But I would have to say my passion.
Alright so on Fluency Builder today we've picked out three key phrases.
When Rebecca said, I'm someone who needs new challenges.
Okay so this structure, I'm someone who, is something that you hear a lot of and you can
actually fill in the end of that sentence with a number of different phrases.
So in here we heard, I'm someone who needs new challenges.
We could also say, I'm someone who needs structure.
Alright so we can also change the verb right from needs to, I'm someone who likes a challenge.
Or maybe Tracy is someone who requires a lot of attention.
Right, so this is a way to introduce a characteristic of yourself.
So you're telling people something about yourself.
So moving on, we also saw that Rebecca said that she is fun to work with.
I'm fun to work with.
Okay so let's just treat this like a little fixed phrase.
We say this about people all the time.
He's fun to work with, she's fun to work with, or this group is really fun to work with.
They're all really fun to work with.
So that means that it's not serious, that you really enjoy doing it.
So it's a little fixed phrase that you can use to say that it's nice to work with Rebecca
or that she's very, not serious, not a mean person.
And finally we have a phrase at the end, Rebecca hears a question she thinks is very difficult,
she calls it a tough question.
And so a tough question is something that is very hard to answer.
That's right, she says, hmm, that's a tough question.
So she's basically acknowledging the fact that the question is difficult, a tough question.
Now we can combine this word tough with other things.
That's right, you can say it's a tough situation, that means it's a hard situation to handle.
You could also say he's having a tough time, that means that right now in his life there
are many things that are difficult for him.
And so tough means difficult or hard or unpleasant.
So a lot of good stuff coming from Rebecca, mentioning all the positive things about her.
Why don't we listen to her dialogue one last time.
Okay Rebecca, now you've given me a good idea of your work and academic background, but
what about you as a person?
I'm very enthusiastic and, well, I hope my colleagues would agree, I'm fun to work with.
Alright so talking about key strengths, I think it's always difficult to talk about
yourself and still sound a little bit humble, right, to not sound arrogant like saying I'm
the best.
Right, well that's the key here I think.
You want to say really good things about yourself because you're a salesperson and you're selling
your personality.
But at the same time you don't want to sound like a jerk.
Like I'm the best, I'm so smart, I'm so clever.
That's a little bit off-putting, it makes people uncomfortable.
So I think the trick is a balance.
And I guess if you use words such as this, like you know, I'm focused, I'm hardworking,
I'm independent, I have a passion for this.
It makes you sound like you're a really good worker but you're not arrogant, you're not
saying oh well, you know, I'm the best of what I do or something like that.
Right, so you're basically saying these are my skills but obviously I'm not the only person
who has these great skills.
Okay so that's all the time we have for today.
Be sure to join us next week.
We're also going to have kind of part two of this when we talk about our weaknesses.
So this time we talked about our strengths, then we'll talk about weaknesses.
So we hope that you will check out our website EnglishPod.com.
If you have questions or comments, leave them there for us and we'll be in touch very soon.
Oh yeah!
My name is Catherine and today we're talking a little bit about, well, kind of girly things.
We've talked about guys' shoes, women's shoes.
So now we're going to talk about another aspect of women's accessories.
We're going to talk about makeup.
Okay, so we're wearing makeup today.
Actually we're buying makeup at the store.
I never even knew there were so many kinds of makeup.
So we're going to learn all about these in today's dialogue.
Oh, can we stop at the shop really fast?
I lost my makeup bag at the airport and I want to pick up a few things.
Will you take long?
No, five minutes.
I promise.
We've been here for almost an hour.
I thought you said you were only going to get a few things.
How long does it take you to pick out a lipstick and some nail polish?
You have no idea what you're talking about.
Just for my eyes I have to get eyeliner, an eyelash curler, eye shadow, an eyebrow pencil,
and mascara.
Then I need to get foundation, liquid foundation.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
How much is all this going to cost?
I'm looking at the price of each one of these little things and it's outrageous.
This is basically a crayon.
You spend as much money or more on your razors, aftershave, cologne, and gel.
Not to mention how much you spend on clothes and...
Get the stupid $30 crayon.
So obviously we're getting a lot of things for this girl, a lot of makeup.
So I think there are a couple of things that we may not know about.
So let's take a look at them now on Language Takeaway.
So the first thing we're talking about today is a basic.
Most women carry this around in their purses.
It's called lipstick.
And as you said, this is a pretty basic thing.
It's the kind of like paint that you put on your lips.
And it's called a lipstick because it looks like a little stick.
Right, and you turn it with your fingers and it comes up and then you turn it again and
it goes down, basically keeping it from touching all of the things in your purse.
So lipstick.
And well, apart from this, we also have nail polish.
And this is also very popular with the ladies when you paint your nails a certain color.
So polish is basically anything that makes something shiny.
It's something that you add to surfaces.
So you could add polish to wood on a table.
But in this case, we're putting it on our nails.
That is fingernails or toenails.
So it's nail polish.
And now we're getting into the specific things.
A lot of makeup that women use on their eyes.
So for example, the first thing she said, she needs to get an eyeliner.
Okay, so eyeliner is basically a pencil.
This is what the guy is making fun of her about.
He says it's just a pencil or a crayon for your eye.
And so basically, you use it to draw a line on the top or the bottom of your eye, your
eyelid.
Okay, so yeah, it kind of looks like a marker and it comes, I think, black and different
colors and then you paint little lines around your eyes to make them more pronounced.
So it's called an eyeliner.
Okay, and now we have an eyelash curler.
And also, I think this is very important for the ladies.
Yeah, well not everyone uses this.
It's a little bit of a scary instrument.
It looks like it might pop your eye out.
It's something you use on your eyelashes.
So those are the hairs that come off of your eye.
And basically, you use this to make them curly or to make them seem a bit longer and prettier.
So an eyelash curler is something that, it's almost like a press or something for your
eyelashes.
And well, now that we've got that covered, we move on to eye shadow.
And I think this goes on your eyelid, right?
Some people make it go further.
They put it on their face above their eyelid, but that's a little bit crazy.
I think eye shadow generally goes, like you said, on your eyelid.
And it can be in many different colors.
So blue, pink, red, whatever.
People sometimes go crazy with eye shadow.
And now what about an eyebrow pencil?
This is basically a pencil for filling in or for coloring your eyebrows.
Sometimes people like to make their eyebrows look darker or thicker.
And so they use this pencil.
It's usually brown or black.
And they use it on their eyebrows.
So we've picked up a lot of vocab here related to your eye.
For example, an eyelash, your eyelid.
Now we're talking about the eyebrows, which are the hairs on top, more or less around
your forehead.
And now we also have another type of makeup called mascara.
This is another basic.
So like we said earlier, lipstick is something you almost always find in a woman's purse.
Well, mascara is another one of those things.
Almost everybody wears mascara.
This is kind of like a brush for your eyelashes and it paints them a different color.
So most women wear black or brown and it makes your eyelashes look really long.
So this is kind of like paint for your eyelashes.
And now moving away from your eyelashes, we're going to have, we're buying also some foundation
and liquid foundation.
So foundation is just a kind of base for your face.
So foundation, like a building, is the very bottom.
Well, in this case, it's something that you put on your cheeks, on your face in general,
on your forehead to kind of smooth your skin out and make it look all the same color or
the same texture.
And so foundation can be like we see here, either a powder, which is kind of like a dry
substance, or you can use liquid foundation, which is like it says, liquid.
It's almost like a thick cream.
So foundation is, as you said, I guess you just want to make your skin look the same
color, the same texture, because obviously not everyone's skin is perfect.
We all have some spots maybe, or some different color on our face.
You say we like you wear foundation too.
Do you wear makeup, Marco?
Well, I mean, we as people because, you know.
No, no, no, no, none of this makeup for me, although I have used an eyelash curler once.
Well, my friends dared me to, so okay.
And you loved it.
Now I use it all the time.
But what I do use is now things related to guys.
So for example, the girlfriend was saying, well, you buy razors and aftershave.
So what are these things?
Well, razors aren't just a guy thing.
Everyone can have a razor.
It's basically a blade, like a very sharp piece of metal that you use to cut hair.
So the hair on your legs, the hair on your face, these are things that you cut with a
razor.
And men use razors to shave their faces, shave their chins or above their lip.
And well, actually, after we shave our beard, we put on a little bit of aftershave, which
is basically kind of like alcohol that smells really nice.
That's right, because shaving can actually hurt your skin or the hairs under your skin
can become really itchy or irritated.
And so aftershave helps make everything feel better.
Well, and sometimes we also use a little bit of cologne to smell nice.
So women usually wear perfume, which is, you know, the perfumes like CK and Hugo Boss and
all that stuff, as well as for guys, it's usually called cologne.
Okay, that's right.
It's an important difference there because we don't say perfume for guys and we don't
say cologne for girls.
So women wear perfume, like you said, but men wear cologne.
And this word is very funny looking.
It ends with, it's spelled C-O-L-O-G-N-E.
So you don't really say the G, it's not cologna.
It's cologne.
And it's something that you put on your neck or your face to smell really good if you're
a man.
And finally, if you have long hair or maybe you have very spiky hair like I do, you need
to wear a little bit of gel to kind of give your head a little bit of shape.
So gel is actually the name of a kind of substance.
It's not liquid, but it's not hard either.
And it's basically thick like paste that you put in your hair to keep it in one place.
Yeah, it makes your hair become a little bit hard or it keeps your hairstyle in for a long
All right, so a lot of vocab here, a lot of things that we've picked up.
Why don't we go back, review all this great vocab on our dialogue for today.
Come on, we've been here for almost an hour.
I thought you said you're only going to get a few things.
First for my eyes, I have to get eyeliner, an eyelash curler, eye shadow, an eyebrow
pencil, and mascara.
Not to mention how much you spend on clothes and-
Fine, get the stupid $30 crayon.
So now we're going to take a look at three short phrases that we've picked out for you
So this first phrase is something that we almost always say with our friends or family
when we're hungry, we're shopping.
Sometimes you're outside and you just really want to eat.
You say, hey, let's grab a bite to eat.
It's a very natural colloquial way of saying, let's go get something to eat or let's go
eat something.
So it could be small, it could be a snack like an ice cream, but it can also be dinner.
So hey, do you want to go grab a bite to eat sometime?
That means, hey, you want to go have lunch or dinner sometime?
So the phrase is grab a bite or go grab a bite to eat.
So a bite can be a noun, like a thing, like a piece of food that you eat, but it can also
be a verb, to bite, like the dog bites the man.
And so you have to be careful with this one.
In this case, it's a noun.
And well, she wanted to first go to the store and she said, I want to pick up a few things.
Well, usually when you pick something up, you take it from a table or from the ground.
But in this case, it means to buy something because you can't just pick something up in
a store and then walk away.
You have to pay for it.
So for example, you can say, when you come home, can you pick up a carton of milk?
So that means, can you buy some milk on your way home?
It doesn't mean, can you take some from someone else or steal some.
All right, so to pick something up, to buy, to go and get, but obviously you have to pay.
All right, and he used this very interesting phrase when she was getting all these things
for her.
He said, whoa, whoa, whoa, are you nuts?
Okay, so nuts is the important word here.
It means crazy or out of your mind.
So it's another way of saying crazy.
So if you call someone nuts or you say, he's nuts, that means.
Yeah, like don't talk to him.
He's nuts.
Or he always says really dangerous things.
So he's a little bit crazy.
So it's an adjective as to describe someone that's a little bit crazy or a little bit
adventurous maybe.
But in this case, he's not actually saying she's a crazy person.
He's saying, listen, this is so much stuff.
Or he's basically saying, do you really want to do this?
This seems like a bad decision.
So that's why he used the phrase, are you nuts?
Okay, so a lot of great stuff there.
Why don't we go back, listen to our dialogue for the last time and we'll be back in a bit.
As for my eyes, I have to get eyeliner and eyelash curler, eye shadow, an eyebrow pencil
You spend as much money or more on your razors, aftershave, cologne and gel.
All right, so talking about makeup, a lot of things here.
Maybe I didn't mention a couple of things.
We took a look at the most important things, I think, right?
But you also mentioned something, for example, cover-up.
There's something, such makeup called cover-up.
Yeah, so cover-up.
It could be a couple of different things in English, for example, something that you wear
to cover your body when you're at the beach.
You don't want to walk around and everyone can see you in your bathing suit.
But when we're talking about makeup, a cover-up is a thing that we use to hide blemishes or
zits or pimples.
You know when you get a really small red dot on your face and you're embarrassed and it's
ugly, and you don't want anyone to see it?
Well, cover-up is a kind of makeup you use that looks like your skin color and you put
it on top and you can't see the red anymore.
Okay, so you cover up your pimple.
Yeah, or you use cover-up.
It's a noun too.
Okay, and I've also seen that, well, many girls don't really wear too much lipstick
anymore nowadays.
They use this thing called lip gloss.
Okay, lip gloss.
Remember we were talking about polish earlier?
Well, gloss is a similar word.
It means something that makes another thing shiny.
And so lipstick can be very dry, can be very flat, but lip gloss is something that makes
things look wet, makes things look shiny.
Okay, and actually one last thing before, when we talked about gel, I guess guys use
gel but women use this thing called mousse.
Or they could use gel too.
I don't think it's gender specific, but a lot of people use mousse.
I know some men who use mousse as well.
Mousse is kind of like a foam.
You know it comes in a can and it goes ffff.
Yeah, and it inflates this white substance.
Yeah, it looks like, I don't know.
Like whipped cream.
Like whipped cream, yeah.
And you put it in your hair and it's very fluffy.
And it's actually less strong.
It's not like gel because if you put it in your hair, your hair won't look hard.
But it will help shape your hair if you want to keep your hair in one place.
A lot of things here.
I think in beauty and cosmetics, we have a lot of a lot of things.
And probably we didn't even touch on half of the things that are out there.
So if you have any questions or if you want to ask us anything at all about this lesson
or anything else, you can always come to EnglishPod.com and leave your questions and comments there.
So we'll see you at EnglishPod and until next time.
Alright, bye everyone!
My name is Catherine and today we're talking about something that's very common in high
schools all across the English speaking world.
Today we are going to talk a little bit about sexual education or also called sex ed.
So you may be asking yourself what exactly this means.
So let's take a look at this word on Vocabulary Preview.
Okay, so more commonly than not we're going to hear the phrase sex ed, E-D.
That stands for education.
This is basically a class or a training about sexuality and safety when it comes to these
issues.
So as you said, this is a very common class that is part of the school curriculum in English
speaking countries.
I think maybe students are about 16 to 15, 16 years old when they get sex ed.
We had it when I was about 13, 14.
13, 14.
So it all depends.
Now many countries don't really have this in their public schools.
Other countries only have it in private schools.
So it's a very controversial topic about if schools should actually be teaching this.
Why don't we take a look at today's dialogue.
Let's listen to what's happening today.
All right, settle down everyone.
As part of this school's curriculum, we'll be covering sex ed this week.
Oh boy, yeah.
Now I want everyone to take this class seriously.
Sexual education is very important and I want you to ask as many questions as you can think
Remember, there are no stupid questions here.
Miss Carlton, what exactly is sexual education?
Are you going to teach us like Kama Sutra and stuff like that?
No, Jason, that's not actually what sex ed is.
Basically, we will talk about sexually transmitted diseases, contraceptives, and how the male
and female bodies work.
My older sister is in college and she takes what she and her friends call the pill.
I never really understood what that is, but I know it has to do with sex or something.
Good point, Jason.
This will be the topic of our first class, contraceptives.
As you mentioned, the pill is one of the many that exist.
The birth control pill is taken daily by a woman in order to prevent unwanted pregnancy,
but it does not protect her from contracting STDs from an infected person.
Another popular method is using condoms.
This is probably the best method if you have sex, since it not only prevents a woman from
getting pregnant, but also protects you from STDs.
Yes, Jason?
What are condoms made out of?
How is it exactly that a woman gets pregnant?
Condoms are usually made out of an elastic material called latex.
As for your other question, that's a whole new class.
Alright, we're back, so now I'm sure there are a couple of words that we didn't really
understand there, so let's take a look at a couple of them on Language Takeaway.
Okay, so one of the most common phrases you're going to hear when it comes to sex and safety
when you're having sex is sexually transmitted disease or STD.
That's right, so the teacher actually mentioned the whole name sexually transmitted diseases
and also she used the acronym STDs or STD in STD.
And what exactly are these STDs?
Well, the key word here is disease.
These are illnesses that you can get from sex.
So sexually transmitted means transmitted or passed on from one person to another person
during sex and this could include any kind of diseases like AIDS or syphilis or chlamydia
or gonorrhea.
Those are the most famous ones.
That's right, so sexually transmitted diseases.
Now why don't we get into the title of our lesson today, contraceptives.
What are these contraceptives?
Okay, so teachers are always going to explain the big difference between protection and
contraception or contraceptives.
Usually contraceptives have to do with getting pregnant.
If you don't want your girlfriend to get pregnant and your guy or if your girl and you don't
want to get pregnant, you take contraceptives or you use contraceptives.
There are many different kinds and I think the most common kind for preventing pregnancy
or keep making sure you don't get pregnant is something called the pill.
That's right, one of the kids said that his sister takes the pill.
Now this is called the pill.
Now you know that pills are any type of a capsule or little medicine that you swallow
with water.
But what is the pill?
Well this is the birth control pill.
So that's a long name.
People often in conversation just say the pill.
But it's called the birth control pill and it's a pill that women take every day or some
of them different times to prevent pregnancy.
So that means that you're trying not to get pregnant.
Okay, so this is called a contraceptive.
Now as you mentioned, this is a contraceptive so it will prevent you from getting pregnant.
But it will not protect you and as many of you may know, the most common form of protection
against pregnancy and STDs are a little device called a condom.
Okay, so a condom is like you said the most common kind of protection that people use
and it's important because it helps you not only not get pregnant but also not get a disease.
And so people often talk about this as being the most important kind of protection from
disease and pregnancy.
And it's basically just a cover for a man's penis and it prevents liquids being passed
on from one person to another person.
That's right and actually as you mentioned, this has to do with our next word.
It prevents you from contracting STDs like the teacher mentioned.
So to contract an STD or to contract an illness, what does that mean?
Well contract is a special verb that we use when we're talking about getting a disease.
You don't say I got a disease, you say I contracted it.
That means I got it from somewhere or someone.
And that's one of the dangers of sexually transmitted diseases.
You can contract very serious diseases just by having sex.
Now can I say I contracted the flu?
I mean it's not incorrect but we don't really say that with the flu.
It's not a very serious illness.
You say it with very serious illnesses.
So yeah I don't think you would go around saying I contracted a cold last week.
I got the cold.
And you wouldn't say this about cancer either because cancer is not something you get from
someone else.
But you say he contracted AIDS or he contracted gonorrhea for example.
So as you see the spelling is actually the same as a contract like an agreement between
a company or two people.
But the accent is different.
A contract is an agreement to contract that what we're talking about.
Illnesses.
To get.
And for our final word, we're going back to condoms.
The material that they are made out of is called latex.
Okay so latex is a very special kind of material that is like they say in the dialogue elastic.
It's stretchy.
And it's almost plasticky.
But it's very very tough.
It's very strong and that's why they make condoms out of it.
And I think we also see things made out of latex for example doctors when they're operating
they wear latex gloves.
Obviously they don't want to use materials that are weak or that are thin because they
need to protect their patients from germs.
And so latex gloves and latex condoms are very very common because they are so durable.
So a lot of interesting stuff there.
Why don't we now jump on over and take a look at a couple of different phrases on Fluency
So this first phrase is something you should be very very familiar with if you've ever
been in a classroom in America or Canada.
Often times with younger children or with high school children people get really worked
up very excited.
You know kids are yelling and talking and they're giggling and they think that oh sex
is so funny.
And so the teacher always says settle down.
So if somebody tells you to settle down.
Hey settle down.
That means calm down.
You're too excited.
So you can use this with your kids maybe.
We need to go.
Get in the car.
So just kind of be quiet.
Be a little bit calmer.
It's very very very important phrase especially if you're talking to younger people.
And well of course when you're talking about sex with teenagers or younger people everyone's
laughing and giggling because it's such a weird thing for them.
And the teacher said I really want you to take this class seriously.
Okay so take this class seriously.
This comes from a sentence structure that's very very important.
To take something seriously.
I take my studies very seriously.
Or you guys should take this class seriously.
It's important.
It means listen.
This is important and you need to know this.
It's a way it's kind of a way to instruct someone to really pay attention.
Or what if you say I want you to take me seriously.
That means I want you to really think about what I'm saying and not just talk to me like
a you know like I don't really understand what's going on.
So to take something seriously is the structure.
Now moving on to our final phrase.
When we were talking again about contraceptives we talked about avoiding pregnancy and we
have a phrase that we use called unwanted pregnancy.
Okay so pregnancy is what happens when someone gets pregnant.
They're going to have a baby.
But an unwanted pregnancy is a certain kind of pregnancy.
It means when someone did not plan to get pregnant or did not want to get pregnant.
So want unwanted is the opposite of wanted.
It means like it was an accident.
So you wouldn't really say an accidental pregnancy because it you know.
It's still a kid.
So you didn't want to get pregnant but you did.
That's why we say unwanted pregnancy.
Or you'll hear very often condoms help prevent unwanted pregnancy or the pill helps prevent
unwanted pregnancy.
Okay so a lot of interesting stuff there.
I think it's worthwhile for us to listen to our dialogue for one last time.
All right settle down everyone.
As part of this school's curriculum we'll be covering sex ed this week.
Oh boy yeah.
Remember there are no stupid questions here.
Miss Carlton what exactly is sexual education?
No Jason that's not actually what sex ed is.
Basically we will talk about sexually transmitted diseases, contraceptives and how the male
I never really understood what that is but I know it has to do with sex or something.
Good point Jason.
This will be the topic of our first class contraceptives.
As you mentioned the pill is one of the many that exist.
The birth control pill is taken daily by a woman in order to prevent unwanted pregnancy
This is probably the best method if you have sex since it not only prevents a woman from
getting pregnant but also protects you from STDs.
Yes Jason?
Alright so coming back, we obviously didn't cover all forms of contraception and forms
of protecting yourself against STDs but I remember very clearly in school when we talked
about this, they said the best protection, the best way to not get pregnant or to get
STDs is celibacy.
Celibacy is not having any sex.
When I was in school they said the safest sex is no sex because there's always a little
bit of danger.
And so this is something that I think they tell a lot of young people to scare them but
there is some truth to it.
Yeah of course.
Now what do you think about this topic?
Do you think it's worthwhile and we should teach children sexual education or many people
protest against it and say this is wrong, we shouldn't be giving kids condoms when they're
in high school?
Well personally I think that kids in most parts of the world will have sex whether or
not you tell them not to.
And so because of that, because everyone's going to, there are always going to be people
trying it, I think it's important to inform students and inform kids who are in high school
of options and of safety and of important health measures because otherwise you risk
unwanted pregnancies and you risk people getting these very serious diseases like AIDS.
I think it is a very important topic.
Some countries or some places even within the United States are a little bit more conservative
than others and so many times they are against this type of education but I've actually encountered
people who never received sexual education and well until they were maybe like 18 they
thought they can get pregnant by a kiss.
So I think that's one of the dangers.
Obviously there are both sides to this issue and we're curious to know what you think.
Do you think that sex ed should be a course or should be something that people talk about
in schools, in high school or in college?
Do they do this in your home country?
Another orientation of the
My name is Catherine, and today we've got one more episode in our series about interview
skills.
This is an elementary level series, and we're here today to talk about things that you might
not be very good at.
Today we're going to talk about weaknesses, and that is our word for vocabulary preview.
So let's take a look at it now.
Okay, so what is a weakness?
A weakness is a thing or an activity or something that you're just not very good at or something
that you think you can improve.
Okay, so obviously no one is perfect, and like we saw in the previous lesson, we had
a lot of good things about ourselves, key strengths, and now we're going to talk about
our weaknesses.
Maybe you're a little bit lazy.
That might be a weakness.
A weakness is the opposite of strength, and that is the topic today, so let's take a listen
to today's dialogue.
Well I think you've given me a clear impression of your positive qualities, but let's talk
a little bit about your weaknesses.
Well it's always more difficult to describe them, isn't it?
Definitely, but if you had to pinpoint one weakness, what would it be?
Well as I mentioned before, I do tend to get frustrated if I don't see progress in my work
or career.
I suppose I'm quite a restless character.
My father always taught me to be a high achiever, so...
So would you say if things don't go your way at work, it could easily get you down?
Well in a way, yes, but I must say that even if I'm not completely happy in my work, I
always give 110%.
I would never shirk my responsibilities.
I suppose sometimes I expect too much too soon.
Well you know journalism is a highly competitive world, so you do need to keep pushing yourself,
it's true.
Okay, well let's move on to talk about the job position here, shall we?
Yes, please.
So obviously, Rebecca did a very good job at talking about her weaknesses in a very
positive way.
So before we get into analyzing that, why don't we take a look at a couple of words
she used on Language Takeaway.
One of the first words that Mr. Parsons used was a clear impression, so impression.
Alright so I think this is a very common word when people talk about first impressions or
I get the impression.
So what is an impression?
Well an impression is like an idea or a feeling.
So I can have an impression about something, it means that I don't necessarily understand
it really well or I don't have experience with it, but it's an idea that I have about
That's right, so for example, maybe you meet somebody new and you say I get the impression
that he is a liar.
But maybe then you get to know him and he's not.
So this is your idea about something or the way you feel about something.
So in this case, Mr. Parsons has a clear impression of her positive qualities.
That means that he has an idea or an understanding of the things that Rebecca is good at, but
he wants to know more about her weaknesses.
That's right and Mr. Parsons asked her to try and pinpoint one of her weaknesses.
So this word to pinpoint.
This is a great word, I'm not really sure where it comes from in English, but I think
it's very visual, you can see what the word means.
Pinpoint means to locate or identify or really be specific about something.
That's right, so maybe if you go to the doctor and you say that your back hurts, the doctor
might ask you to try and pinpoint where on your back you have the pain.
That's right, so it's a way to be specific or very exact about something.
Okay, so if she had to pinpoint something, she said, well, I do get a little bit frustrated.
Okay, so frustrated is a way you feel.
I feel frustrated, he is frustrated.
It's basically a feeling that you get when you have to do something, but you don't think
you can do it or maybe something annoys you and you get frustrated.
For example, when people tap like this and I'm working, I get frustrated because it's
a distraction.
Okay, so everyone has different things that frustrate them.
Now if we take a look at this word, it is actually an adjective and we usually use it,
you get frustrated or as you said, you feel frustrated.
So remember, it may look like a verb, but it's actually an adjective that ends in ed,
frustrated, to get frustrated.
He got frustrated or we feel very frustrated.
Okay, and well, apart from being frustrated, she also said that she is a restless character.
Okay, so someone is restless if they don't like to stay in one place all the time.
That means someone who wants to move around or to go places or to travel or to see new
things is restless.
So she has a restless character, that means she likes to move around.
She doesn't like to stand still in one place.
Maybe she gets bored very easily.
Okay, so that's somebody that would be restless.
But moving on, she also said that she doesn't like to shirk her responsibilities.
Okay, you often hear these words go together.
So responsibilities are things that we need to do, right?
Things that other people expect us to do, to shirk a responsibility means to not do
something that you're supposed to do.
It means to avoid responsibility or to push it away.
Okay, so it's a verb, to shirk your responsibilities.
You shouldn't shirk your responsibilities.
Alright, so a lot of interesting key words there.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back with Fluency Builder.
Okay Rebecca, well I think you've given me a clear impression of your positive qualities,
but let's talk a little bit about your weaknesses.
Okay, well it's always more difficult to describe them, isn't it?
Well as I mentioned before, I do tend to get frustrated if I don't see progress in my
work or career.
Well, in a way, yes.
But I must say that even if I'm not completely happy in my work, I always give 110%.
Well, you know journalism is a highly competitive world, so you do need to keep pushing yourself,
Yes please.
So we've picked out three key phrases for you on Fluency Builder.
Let's take a look at those now.
Starting with Mr. Parson saying, so would you say if things don't go your way at work,
it could easily get you down?
Two great phrases there.
So the first phrase, if things don't go your way.
So this is kind of a funny phrase when you think about it because they go your way like
to me or what is my way.
This basically means if things do not happen in a way that makes you happy or in a way
that you expect.
Okay, so we could say he lost his job, he couldn't pay his bills, things just didn't
go his way.
So things are not happening as he planned or as he expected.
You can also say the opposite.
So he won the lottery and he also met a really beautiful girl who wanted to be his girlfriend.
Things were going his way.
So if things are going your way, it's good.
If things aren't going your way, then it's bad.
Okay, and so if things aren't going Rebecca's way, does that mean that it could easily get
her down?
Okay, so to get you down or to get someone down means to make you sad, upset or frustrated
like that where we just heard.
So you could ask someone like, Marco, what gets you down?
Rainy days.
That's a good one.
Yeah, rainy days get me down too.
So it's kind of a way of saying what makes you sad or depressed or what makes you unhappy.
Or in this case, if something doesn't happen as you planned it, if it doesn't go your way,
does that make you sad?
Does that get you down?
So a very good question there.
And she responded that kind of, yeah, that does happen, but she always tries to give
110%.
Okay, so this is a really funny phrase because you think I can give everything I have.
I can work really hard and that's 100%.
But we say 110% means you do more than you can.
It's like pushing yourself more than is possible.
So this is a very common phrase in sports and business.
People are saying, for example, I always remember my coach saying, I want you guys to give me
110% out there.
That means I really want you to try very hard to do as much as possible.
Even more than your best, more than you think you can do.
So again, it refers to the effort that you put into something.
It can be in business, sports, anything.
And she's basically saying, I always do more than my best.
I do as much as humanly possible.
Okay, so a lot of great stuff there from Rebecca.
Why don't we listen to her one last time and we'll be back in a bit.
Well I think you've given me a clear impression of your positive qualities.
But let's talk a little bit about your weaknesses.
But if you had to pinpoint one weakness, what would it be?
Well in a way, yes.
Alright, so talking about weaknesses, I think one of the common mistakes when people talk
about weaknesses is they say they work too much.
And everyone says you should never say that in an interview.
Yeah, I think it's a bad way to talk about yourself because a boss or an employer really
wants to hear a real weakness.
And I work too hard is a way of saying, I have no weaknesses.
I'm actually really, really perfect.
I just think it's a lazy answer.
So maybe you should avoid saying I work too hard and really focus on things that you do
have to work on.
And then I think the key is to say that I know this is something that I have a hard
time with, I know this is a weakness and I'm trying to improve it.
Yeah, I remember in some of the interviews I've had, I think my common answer was sometimes
I'm very late, I'm not very punctual.
But you know, it's a real weakness and it may seem like difficult, but then you give
it a little spin by saying, yeah, I'm sometimes not very punctual, but then I try to make
up for it, maybe staying more time at the office, or sometimes I try to wake up a little
bit earlier and make it on time.
I don't know, something like that.
So the key there is just to show that you know it's a problem and that you're trying
to work on it.
So this is actually the hardest part for me of an interview, talking about yourself in
a negative way, because obviously you want to get the job.
So you want to make sure that the employer has a good idea of yourself, but it's hard.
I think it's the hardest part for everyone.
I don't think it's just you.
Yeah, it's hard.
Why don't you practice and come to our website EnglishPod.com and on our comment section,
why don't you tell us what your weaknesses are?
Of course, you can also share with us your strengths on our lesson about strengths.
But in this one, I recommend everyone practice this because it will come up at some point
and it's good to get the practice in.
So EnglishPod.com, we hope to see you there.
Bye山本太一.
My name is Catherine and today we've got an elementary level lesson for you all about
getting up in the morning.
Today we're making breakfast and well, of course, many people have different things
when they're making breakfast.
Some of them are very big, others are small.
So but this is what we're going to talk about today.
So why don't we listen to the dialogue and see what they're having for breakfast today.
Smells good.
What's for breakfast?
Well, since we're getting up so late, I decided to make a big breakfast.
Brunch.
So I made scrambled and soft boiled eggs, some French toast and buttermilk pancakes.
Wow, you really went all out.
Did you make any coffee?
Yeah, just the way you like it.
I also put out some cereal and muesli if you feel like having something more light.
I'll squeeze us some fresh orange juice.
Get the jam and butter while you are in there.
Oh, and don't forget the syrup.
A huge breakfast.
Way too big for me.
I don't like to eat a big breakfast because I feel like it makes me tired and then I don't
have any energy.
Especially if you just get up, right?
You need to shower and maybe have some fruit and then go to work.
There were a lot of interesting words and phrases that we heard that we would benefit
from taking a closer look at.
All right, so on Language Takeaway today, we're going to take a look at our first word
and it's an interesting word.
It's kind of a mix of two things.
So this word comes from two different words.
Breakfast, b-b-breakfast and lunch.
So brunch.
So if you have brunch, what is exactly brunch?
Well there's two ways to look at brunch.
One is the time element.
Usually brunch is later than breakfast, but maybe a little earlier than lunch.
So 11 o'clock or maybe even noon.
But the other thing is size.
Because you're putting two meals together, usually brunch is very big.
You eat a lot of food.
Okay, so it's a perfect combination of breakfast and lunch.
I'm the type of person that likes having scrambled eggs at noon.
So this is a perfect solution, brunch.
Right, you don't have to only eat eggs at breakfast, you can eat them at lunch as well.
This is actually something we do a lot in America for Mother's Day.
So mom wakes up late, we take her to brunch.
It's a very big special meal.
And talking about eggs and the types of eggs that we can have, I mentioned scrambled eggs
and in the dialogue we also heard soft-boiled eggs.
Okay, these are two very important kinds of eggs.
Usually if you're in a restaurant, they will ask you how do you want your eggs cooked or
And my answer is always scrambled.
This means someone mixes the eggs before they are cooked and then when they cook, they are
hard, they're yellow.
There's no white, it's just yellow and it's a little hard mixture.
But soft-boiled eggs are very, very different.
That's right, soft-boiled eggs, you actually don't break the egg or open the egg to cook
it like in scrambled eggs.
You actually put the entire egg in boiling water.
I think it's for two minutes and then you take it out and then you open the shell and
the eggs are kind of cooked, it's kind of hard in some parts but it's also kind of liquidy
in other parts.
So the outside, the white part is hard but the yellow part, the yolk is liquid.
It's not hard.
And actually if you want the whole egg to be hard, you can ask for hard-boiled eggs.
That's right, those are cooked for much longer.
Okay, so we have scrambled eggs, soft-boiled eggs, we have French toast and we have buttermilk
pancakes.
Okay, so you can ask for just pancakes.
But if you want to be specific, you want to give instructions about what kind of pancakes,
you can ask for buttermilk pancakes.
And what exactly is buttermilk?
Buttermilk is a very, very creamy, eggy milk that's very, very high in fat that makes everything
taste better, I think.
This is used a lot in baking, not really in other kinds of foods.
So you can have buttermilk muffins or buttermilk biscuits.
But usually you have buttermilk pancakes and so these are very rich, very fatty pancakes.
Awesome, yeah, they taste delicious.
Alright, so now if we want to eat a little bit more healthy, we do have some cereal and
some muesli.
Muesli is a funny word, it's not a sound we make very often in English.
Muesli.
I think it actually comes from German.
It does look German.
Because actually the spelling is M-U-E, so you would kind of want to say Muesli or something.
Yeah, no, we say Muesli and it's basically a mixture of granola or different kinds of
fiber grains.
So just think of having raisins and maybe some almonds, granola, all mixed up and you
have this nice thing that goes well with yogurt, muesli.
It's very, very tasty and also very good for you.
And now, well, actually going back to pancakes, no pancake is possible to eat unless you put
syrup on it, right?
Well, some people might disagree.
I know a lot of people who eat pancakes with honey or with butter.
But the best, I think, is with syrup.
And syrup is basically liquid sugar and you put it on your pancakes to make them sweeter.
Actually, it's the same thing as honey basically, except that it doesn't come from bees.
Right, so real syrup, we say maple syrup, comes from maple trees and you tap the tree
and it comes out.
It's very, very, very sweet.
But we also have syrup you can buy at the store, which is man-made.
Artificial.
Yeah, it's basically just sugar.
So that's what we have with pancakes usually.
But why don't we go back, listen to our dialogue again.
Let's review all of these yummy breakfast treats and we'll come back in a bit with Fluency
Nice, brunch.
So I made scrambled and soft-boiled eggs, some French toast, and buttermilk pancakes.
Alrighty.
All right, so now on Fluency Builder, why don't we take a look at a couple of phrases.
When the guy was kind of surprised, he said, wow, you really went all out.
Okay, so this comes from the phrase, to go all out.
So he went all out or I'm going to go all out.
And this means to give something your best, to do more than is expected.
So if you go all out when you're making breakfast, it means you just, you cooked a lot or really
good and you spend a lot of time doing it.
Or for example, if it's someone's birthday and I know it's their birthday, I go all out
by buying gifts and a cake and lots of decorations and calling all of their friends and having
a party.
So this is doing everything for them.
And he was really surprised and he really seemed to enjoy breakfast and he said, looks
Okay, this is a way to say good job or nicely done.
It's almost a way to say, I'm happy about this.
Or yeah, and obviously you can also say that the food looks delicious, so it looks good.
It looks good.
So it's a way to say, you know, well done, looks good or in this case, looks very tasty.
And now this is an interesting part.
He says, I'll squeeze us some fresh orange juice.
So let's take a look at this verb, squeeze.
To squeeze.
This is something you usually do with your hand when you tighten something.
So for example, your toothpaste.
Yes, you squeeze your toothpaste so the toothpaste will come out.
So in this case, we are squeezing the orange juice to extract the juice.
So you, you hold the orange very tight, you make the juice come out and then you have
fresh squeezed orange juice.
And this is different from orange juice you buy in a store.
So you can say, I'll squeeze us some fresh orange juice.
That means you're going to make fresh orange juice.
And this fresh orange juice that you make is called fresh squeezed orange juice.
Fresh squeezed.
You've probably seen this in the store, like some bottles, they say a hundred percent fresh
squeezed orange juice or something.
Yeah, it's good for advertising.
So very good.
A lot of great, interesting phrases there.
Why don't we listen to our dialogue one last time?
Nice brunch.
You really went all out.
So talking about brunch and breakfast, what is your typical or ideal breakfast?
Breakfast is my favorite meal of the day.
So I could eat breakfast, all kinds of breakfast anytime.
But one of my favorite kinds of breakfast is a Greek diner breakfast.
Greek diner.
What does this have?
Well, we have a lot of diners or small restaurants that are very, very cheap and fast in America.
And this usually involves some scrambled eggs that are made with cheese and toast and potatoes
and bacon and sausage and a coffee.
Big breakfast.
Very big.
But delicious.
What's your favorite?
I also really, really like breakfast.
And I actually like having places that you can have 24-hour a day breakfast.
All day breakfast is called.
So I can have breakfast for dinner.
That's usually in America, you go to a diner because they have breakfast at four o'clock
in the morning or at seven o'clock at night.
I'm not really a coffee person.
I actually enjoy either juice, orange juice, or hot chocolate.
I really like hot chocolate.
And definitely pancakes.
Three buttermilk pancakes stacked.
And as you said before, syrup.
But I actually also put butter on it.
Gross.
I know a lot of people who do that.
They put butter on first and then they pour the syrup.
So it's like complete, very, very fatty.
And hash browns.
I'm definitely a fan of hash browns.
Those are potatoes that are chopped very, very finely and you fry them together.
So it almost becomes like a potato pancake.
So a lot of great stuff.
And obviously, breakfasts around the world are different.
I know, for example, in some countries, they have the fisherman's breakfast.
So in the morning, you have black coffee, rice, and fish.
Because you're going to work all day.
So we're really curious about how breakfast is in your country.
What a typical breakfast is like.
Yeah, what are traditional breakfasts and what is your favorite breakfast?
I mean, we have good up-to-date advertising.
My name is Catherine and today we've got a very advanced dialogue for you.
This is all about what we call the miracle of life.
Today we're going to talk a little bit more in depth about our bodies, about what's going
on inside and how and where babies come from.
So you're going to learn very technical terms for parts of people's bodies, men and women,
and also about the beginning of life.
So before a baby is born, what do you call some of these parts and some of these things?
So let's check out today's dialogue and when we come back, we'll be exploring in depth
these topics.
Continuing with our class, today we are going to study briefly the miracle of life.
Many of you may think you already know how babies come to be, but I'm sure that some
of the things we will be talking about today may surprise you.
Billy, can you turn on the projector please?
Does anyone know what this is?
Looks like a goat head to me.
Nice try.
But this is a woman's womb, which contains her uterus and ovaries.
The ovaries are packed with eggs and each month during the middle of the menstrual cycle,
the ripest one will be sucked up by one of the fallopian tubes.
This is called ovulation and the exact time of ovulation depends on the length of a woman's
cycle.
In an average 28-day cycle, ovulation will most likely happen between the 12th and 15th
days, counting day one as the first day of your last period.
That's amazing!
So each month, the woman produces these eggs and then waits for them to be fertilized?
Actually every woman is already born with over 400,000 eggs.
Some will start dying off immediately and others are released during her fertile period.
What about the guys?
I know they produce sperm and stuff.
The man's body has a tiny factory that produces sperm 24 hours a day.
Each ejaculation will release about 100 million sperm, so the factory is always pretty busy.
The sole purpose of a sperm's life is to fertilize the woman's egg.
So then we basically need to put one and one together so we can have babies, right?
Some will have an orgasm during intercourse and ejaculate sperm and semen.
Now this is where the race begins and all those millions of sperm will race and swim
from the cervix through the uterus and to the fallopian tubes.
This could take anywhere from 45 minutes to 12 hours.
Not all of them make it since some of them go the wrong way and get lost or simply die.
Many will actually reach the egg but only one will penetrate it and fertilize it.
As this happens, the egg instantly changes and creates a protective shield once the sperm
is safely inside.
And then that's it?
Well the egg will be fertilized within about 24 hours of its release.
The genetic material from the sperm combines with the genetic material in the egg to create
a new cell that will rapidly start dividing.
The woman is not actually pregnant until that bundle of new cells known as the embryo travels
the rest of the way down the fallopian tube and attaches itself to the wall of her uterus.
Any other questions?
Then let's move on.
So very interesting.
Actually this type of lecture or class that we just saw is very common in biology class
or anatomy class in the US for example.
We have a class called sex ed or sexual education and this is all about sex and bodies and biology
that most students have to learn before they go into high school.
So we actually had a previous lesson about sex ed.
We talked about contraceptives and while continuing on the topic, this is why we have this advanced
lesson now.
It is a little bit more difficult because we have medical terms and specific names of
parts inside of our body.
So why don't we start with the first one when the teacher explained about a woman's womb.
So this might look like a very hard word to pronounce.
There's a B there.
So W-O-M-B.
We don't pronounce womb.
We say womb.
This is basically where the baby will grow when a baby is produced.
So it's a part inside a woman's body that we also call the uterus.
So I guess the uterus is the specific name of that area, right?
But I guess the whole thing, kind of like the woman's belly where the baby is going
to be, is called the womb.
So now taking a look at other parts of a woman's body, we have the womb, we have the uterus.
Now what about the ovaries?
So ovaries are, actually there are two of them in a woman's body and ovaries are where
eggs are stored.
So women have eggs and this is what will one day become, in some cases, a baby.
And so they are stored in ovaries and when it's time to come down, they come down through
the uterus, through these tubes to either come out or to be met by a sperm.
And these tubes are actually called fallopian tubes.
So a hard word, fallopian.
Again, there are two of these, right, one from each ovary and they come down and that's
basically a passageway for eggs.
And it's interesting because in English, some women that don't want to have any more kids,
they very colloquially say, I have my tubes tied or I had my tubes tied.
So this means a woman has had an operation so that she will not have children in the
future and her fallopian tubes are closed off so that eggs cannot come down.
And this is kind of now you more or less, if you've heard this phrase before, now you
understand why the fallopian tubes and that's why women say tubes tied.
Yeah, she had her tubes tied.
So now all of this is going on because, well, a woman can potentially get pregnant and during
this period of time, this is when the woman is ovulating or this is called ovulation.
So ovulation is a cycle that means it's something that happens again and again and again.
We call it a menstrual cycle and it happens once, basically it's a process that takes
28 days and it's the process of an egg coming down and either being fertilized or not.
So during ovulation, there is a certain period of time where it's precise for a woman to
be able to get pregnant, right?
And now what about when we move on to the men?
Now we talked about the women's side.
What about the men's?
So basically women have eggs, men have sperm.
Okay, these are little, they look like fish almost, they swim around and they are passed
to a woman through semen and men have, I don't know, like 10 million of them or something
crazy.
It's a huge amount of sperm.
Now this is an interesting thing to differentiate.
You said two things, sperm and semen, right?
So sperm are the little creatures or little fish as you said that swim and semen is kind
of actually like the liquid that contains them.
So it's almost not bigger than, but it's the liquid that they come in to basically attack
an egg and try and fertilize an egg.
And so remember in English, sperm can fertilize an egg, semen cannot.
And now this is interesting.
We're talking about to fertilize.
Maybe we've heard this in gardening or something like this, we've heard a fertilizer.
But what do we mean by to fertilize or fertilization?
Okay, basically fertilization or to fertilize something is to, in this case, put a sperm
together with an egg.
So to make a baby.
And so an egg that is not fertilized will come down and will never become a baby.
Because sperm, they don't find eggs and they just, you know, they die.
Now there's another interesting word that's very related or close to this when we say
when a man or a woman is fertile.
So this only applies to women, not to men.
You can say she's fertile.
That means she has eggs, her eggs come down and she can have a baby at some time.
But a woman who is infertile, she's not fertile, can never have babies.
So a lot of these women adopt babies.
Now what about guys?
You know that some men can't have babies as well.
Maybe their sperm is not very good or they have some, same thing, medical condition that
prevents their sperm from fertilizing.
So you don't say that he is infertile or not fertile.
No, you don't.
What do you say?
He is sterile.
So a woman can be fertile or infertile.
Infertile means she cannot have babies.
If a man's semen cannot fertilize an egg properly, he is called sterile.
So this is all of what's going on inside the man's body as well.
And well, actually once they finally combine and get together and the sperm fertilize the
egg, we have a little thing called an embryo.
Okay, so obviously it doesn't become a baby for a little while.
This is a point of contention, a point of argument for a lot of people because no one
agrees when a baby becomes a baby.
But basically when an egg and a sperm come together, they create an embryo, which is
a combination of genetic information and tissue and all these things.
And that starts to grow and to become a fetus, which will one day when it is born, become
a baby.
So the embryo is basically the first stage of when the baby is forming.
But it's not really, as you said, this word fetus, it's not in our dialogue, but a fetus
is actually a formed being, so to say, inside a woman's body, right?
It's growing, it's starting to get the pieces that it needs to become a human being, but
maybe has not fully developed yet.
So it's still inside the woman's womb, we can say.
Okay, a lot of interesting things going on.
Why don't we listen to our dialogue again and we'll be back to talk a little bit more.
Billy, can you turn on the projector, please?
It looks like a goat head to me.
So each month the woman produces these eggs and then waits for them to be fertilized?
The man will have an orgasm during intercourse and ejaculate sperm and semen.
Once this happens, the egg instantly changes and creates a protective shield once the sperm
Alright so this whole aspect, we understand how the miracle of life works, right?
This is what it's called, having babies, the miracle of life.
It's even the name of a video we were forced to watch when I was 12 years old and I still
have nightmares about.
Well it is interesting, it is almost a miracle because you are basically creating something
out of nothing almost, right?
That's right and what's amazing about it is that two people who have different genetic
material and who have different experiences and who have different parts to their bodies
come together and create something that's a combination of all those things.
So it's almost kind of like a game of surprise.
You don't know what's going to happen.
Are they going to have red hair or green eyes or are they going to be tall or short or fat
or thin?
It's interesting.
Now talking about this aspect that you mentioned before, it's controversial when there is life
or when if the embryo is a baby or it's not.
This is because of many countries or cities or states that are discussing the legalization
or not of abortions.
So the reason this is a problem for a lot of people is because no one agrees on when
a fetus becomes a baby and so that will determine for a lot of people when it is okay to abort
the fetus or to kill it and when it is not.
Because I've heard that some people say, well, in your first month, if you've already been
pregnant for a month, the baby already has certain parts formed or even I think the heart
is beginning to form.
So they say you're already pregnant.
I mean, you already have a life inside you.
Well, they say, well, no, it's actually after two months because then the baby has a heartbeat.
I'm not really sure about the timetables that I'm giving you.
I'm giving you more or less a rough outline, but this is the controversy.
It affects laws in many countries.
It affects what medical practitioners like doctors and nurses can do.
And it's always, I think, been an issue as long as I've been alive.
Actually, the whole abortion topic is a big political debate between people who are against
it, who are in favor of it.
And actually, it's still very much illegal in many places in the world.
And it changes, I think, according to where you are in America as well.
So some states have different laws about it, and some states are more lenient, for example.
And actually, this spawned a whole new controversy with the emergency pill, right?
That basically, if you maybe are in risk of being pregnant, then you take this pill and
it kind of prevents fertilization.
Or if fertilization occurred already, then it kind of prevents further growth of the
embryo.
Basically, it's called the emergency contraceptive, and it's taken after you think you might be
pregnant.
But if you didn't use other contraceptives, like a condom, and you think maybe one of
your eggs as a woman was fertilized by sperm, it makes you have your period.
It makes you menstruate.
That means the lining of your uterus and any egg, even if it was fertilized, comes out.
And in some cases, people think of it as a kind of abortion.
So yeah, it's very interesting how the more that we understand about medicine and about
how life works, well, there have been advancements as well, like contraceptives that not only
prevent unwanted pregnancies, but also prevent transmission of diseases, sexually transmitted
diseases.
But at the same time, other things like this, like the emergency contraceptive and abortions
start popping up.
So ethics.
Ethics, exactly.
So a very interesting topic, as we said, controversial, but at the same time, very much beautiful,
because we are talking about how our bodies work and how everyone came to existence.
And how babies are born.
Everyone loves babies.
So we're really interested to get your insights, your opinion about anything that we've talked
about today.
And if you have any other questions or comments, you can always reach us at EnglishPod.com.
And we hope this will start a nice conversation on our website.
But remember, keep it clean.
My name is Kathryn and today we have another episode of our interview series lessons.
Today we're taking a look at a very important aspect of an interview.
We're talking about salary and money.
So this is the end of the interview and we're starting to talk about details of the job.
Let's check this out.
Listen to the dialogue one time and when we come back we'll be talking more about what's
Well, I'm sure you have a number of questions to ask me regarding the position.
Well, Miss Childs did give me an overview of the position over the phone but there were
some details I'd like to clarify.
Well, feel free to ask me anything and I'll try to fill in the details.
Could I first ask about the remuneration package?
That's quite an important point, isn't it?
As a junior sub-editor, we offer a starting salary of HK$150,000 per annum.
This doesn't include a generous housing allowance also.
And are there other bonuses included?
Well, apart from full health insurance, we do offer a company staff bonus scheme linked
to readership numbers.
But we could go through all the details of that at a later date.
Well, Mr. Parsons, I am flexible when it comes to salary.
The opportunity to work in Hong Kong with your company is the most important thing for
Well, what other questions do you have, Rebecca?
All right, we're back so let's take a look at a couple of words and phrases on Language
So, this first phrase is a set phrase.
That means these words often go together.
The phrase is remuneration package.
A remuneration package.
Rebecca said, could I first ask about the remuneration package?
So what's an easier way to say this, Marco?
I guess basically the salary.
But a package means that it's not just money.
It's also some of the benefits or the bonuses.
So this is a way to describe how a person is paid in general.
So in the remuneration package that Rebecca is being offered, Mr. Parsons said that she
would get a starting salary of $150,000 per annum.
So this phrase, starting salary, is another fixed phrase.
We have a lot of these today.
That means these two words go together.
Starting salary.
So salary is easy.
It's the amount of money you make either per month or per week or per year.
But what is a starting salary?
How is that different?
Well, basically that's the money that you would start earning in the company.
But obviously with time it could change and you can get more money.
So this means that you will start making this much money, but it's possible that in the
future you will make more.
This is the starting salary.
And well, of course, as we said, it's $150,000, Hong Kong dollars, per annum.
So now we're specifying how often you're getting this money per annum.
So if it were per month, this might be a lot of money.
But this is how much money she will earn per year, per annum.
This comes from Latin.
So per year.
So this is the remuneration package she's getting.
Not only is she getting $150,000 per annum, she's also getting a housing allowance.
So many of us had allowances when we were children.
This means the money that your parents gave you each week, $5 or $10.
Well a housing allowance is a little bit different.
It means the money that your company gives you per month or per year to pay for your
apartment or your house.
So obviously the company is saying that, look, we're going to give you a certain amount of
money for you to pay for your house.
You don't have to really pay for your house.
We'll pay for it.
So basically it's a benefit.
It's a part of this remuneration package.
You get a salary and you get money for your house.
It's a pretty nice deal.
And well also she's getting health insurance and she is also being offered a company staff
bonus scheme.
Bonus scheme.
A bonus is something extra.
It's on top of what you normally get.
But a bonus scheme indicates that the bonus changes according to how well you do.
So obviously he's specifying that the bonus scheme is linked to readership numbers.
So let's say for example Marco sells newspapers.
Marco, you sell on a good week a hundred newspapers.
If you sell a hundred fifty, you get a bonus of ten dollars.
But if you sell two hundred newspapers, you get a bonus of fifty dollars.
This is a scheme.
The numbers change.
So all of this that we've just talked about, to be clear, is our remuneration package.
We're talking about a salary.
We're talking about housing allowance, health insurance and even a bonus scheme.
So a package can include these things and much, much more.
CEOs get bigger remuneration packages.
And if you have children, sometimes a part of your package is education costs for your
children or a car or computers, things like that.
So a lot of great stuff there talking about salaries and a little bit of negotiating it.
Why don't we go back, listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back in a bit.
Well, Miss Childs did give me an overview of the position over the phone, but there
were some details I'd like to clarify.
Should I first ask about the remuneration package?
As a junior sub editor, we offer a starting salary of one hundred and fifty thousand Hong
Kong dollars per annum.
So at the beginning of the dialogue, Rebecca is talking to Mr. Parsons about the job and
she says, you know, I don't really have that many questions, but when I talked to Miss
Childs about the job over the phone, there were some things she wanted to clarify.
So how did she talk to her?
She talked to her over the phone.
So this is a really good phrase to specify that you received information or you did business
talking on the phone, not in person.
OK, so this is a bit strange because we use the preposition over.
You could also say I'm on the phone.
That means I'm talking on the phone.
But over the phone means by phone.
Not by mail or email or in person.
But we communicate, we talk over the phone by phone.
So sometimes, for example, people will see a TV commercial with a nice item or device
that they want to buy and they will purchase this object, maybe a DVD player over the phone.
They will call up this number and order it.
Or you can say, you know, I'm really sorry, Marco, but I don't feel comfortable talking
about my banking details over the phone.
OK, so that means on the phone.
So then Mr. Parsons said, feel free to ask me anything.
OK, feel free to ask me anything about the job.
OK, this is a phrase that I use all the time, and I think it's really important when you're
in a business context or a work context to say, listen, if you have any questions, feel
free to ask.
It means don't hesitate.
Don't be nervous.
If you have a question, just ask it.
So feel free to ask.
Just ask me.
It's a very good phrase to give someone or to make someone feel more comfortable.
Exactly, exactly.
And he said that I'll try to fill in the details.
OK, so this is an interesting phrase because fill in, you know, on a form, for example,
means put your name in a box or fill in some numbers.
But here the details, we think maybe maybe I don't know what the details are.
So to fill them in means to fill in gaps or some blanks.
So like, I don't know all the details.
Please tell me the information so that I will know them.
So what he's basically saying is I know that you have an idea or a general overview of
how things are.
But if you ask me, I can tell you more specific things that fill in the details.
Or, for example, we're going to a party on Saturday night, but I don't know where the
party is yet.
How about on Friday?
I call you to fill you in on the details.
OK, so those are the phrases that we've prepared for you today.
I think we've taken a look at a lot of great vocab.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue one last time and we'll be back to talk to you a little
OK, well I'm sure you have a number of questions to ask me regarding the position.
Yes, well, Miss Charles did give me an overview of the position over the phone.
But there were some details I'd like to clarify.
Well feel free to ask me anything and I'll try to fill in the details.
As a junior sub-editor, we offer a starting salary of one hundred and fifty thousand Hong
Well apart from full health insurance, we do offer a company staff bonus scheme linked
Well Mr. Parsons, I am flexible when it comes to salary.
Alright so talking about salaries and remuneration packages.
Now is this a common word to talk about remuneration?
It basically means the way that you are paid for the work that you do.
So remuneration, it sounds like a big long word.
But in America I think we also just talk about salary or compensation.
Compensation packages.
Ok, so now when we talk about remuneration, we don't necessarily always talk about money
like in this case, right?
We can receive other benefits.
And so a lot of times people think of the important parts of remuneration not just to
be the salary but also to be the benefits.
And so benefits are not the money, they are the other stuff.
They're health care.
We said earlier a housing allowance, even bonuses and things like that or education
for your children.
These are extras and these are a part of the package.
Now what would you prefer?
To have a good remuneration package like these other additional benefits with a low salary
or would you prefer to have a high salary with not many of these benefits?
Well I think that it's nice to get the benefits and a lower salary because often times at
a company, like a big company, the company can get really good rates on health care.
So if I have to pay for my health care with my big salary, maybe it will cost me more
But if my company pays with the company rate, that means the amount that they pay, then
maybe they can help me pay for these things much cheaper.
And so in the end I make more money.
Actually I've heard some companies that offer great remuneration packages like if you have
children as you said they will pay for their education.
But many times they would even pay for their child care, like maybe a nanny.
Some of them, some of the managers would receive maybe a fuel bonus.
So they would get, I don't know, $200 extra a month for fuel for their car if they drive
to work.
So I think companies can get a little bit creative and it's not that much that they're
actually spending but you take it as to being a really good benefit.
Well that's right and it makes you more I think happy to work for that company because
you feel like they're taking care of you.
Not just they're giving you money, they're actually taking care of you and your family.
So we're actually a little bit curious to know how remuneration packages work in your
company or maybe in your country.
So please let us know.
You obviously don't have to tell us how much money you earn but if you want to tell us
how these things work, where you come from, our website is EnglishPod.com.
All right so thank you very much.
Hello everybody and welcome to EnglishPod.
My name is Catherine and we hope by now you're very excited about football or soccer.
This is the World Cup time of year so this comes every four years actually and we've
got a lesson all about it.
So as everyone may or may not have heard, we are actually in the middle of the World
Cup and as you say it's a football or soccer competition.
Now soccer is only used in the United States.
It's used in the United States although football can be confusing in a place like Australia
where they have two different games that are called football.
So it's a little bit difficult at times to tell someone that you play football and they
think you play American football or Australian football or soccer.
So it's a little bit confusing.
It can be, yeah.
So we have a great lesson all about the World Cup.
We're going to explain a little bit and so let's listen to the dialogue for the very
first time.
Don't you know what day it is?
It's only the day when the world's biggest sporting event is kicking off.
The World Cup.
The first match is today.
It's Mexico versus South Africa.
It's going to be a really good match.
Both teams have a very strong offense and have skilled players.
I think that South Africa will probably dominate the first half since they are the host country
and all.
The only sporting event we watch at home is the Super Bowl.
This is bigger than the Super Bowl, man.
Teams from 32 countries compete against each other every four years and fight to win that
trophy.
They first start in a group stage with eight groups, each group having four teams.
The top two teams pass on to an elimination stage before going on to the semifinals and
the quarterfinals.
Sounds interesting, but soccer doesn't really appeal to me.
Over 700 million people watched the final match of the 2006 World Cup.
It's a very exciting and nerve-wracking sport.
Each nation is cheering on their team, hoping they will become the next champion.
So far, Brazil is the team with the most titles under their belt.
All I know about soccer is that you can't use your hands and that players are always
falling down trying to get a free kick or penalty kick.
It seems like a sissy sport to me.
I'm going to go watch the opening match.
So obviously, two people discussing or fighting over the World Cup and soccer.
One of them doesn't really like it.
But he came up with some really interesting points and explained a couple of interesting
So let's take a look at some of that vocab on Language Takeaway.
So, okay, the very first phrase here is a very important one.
We're talking about sports.
This game is called a sporting event.
So a sporting event is an event, I guess you would say is a performance or something that
happens occasionally, but related to sports.
So an event can be a game itself or a tournament.
You've heard maybe of well, the UEFA Cup, that's the European Federation of Football
or whatever it is.
So basically, you have this tournament for European soccer teams.
But the World Cup is also an event and a very important game could also be an event.
So this basically means a sporting match or a sporting competition.
Now it may sound confusing as to why you put the ing in sport.
It should be maybe sports event or sport event, but I'm not really sure why we add the gerund
to sporting event.
We always just say it this way.
So let's remember that it's sporting event.
This is the world's most important sporting event, for example.
Now we went and we talked about the first match, Mexico versus South Africa, and they're
talking about the teams and how they both have a very strong offense.
Okay, so offense is a part of the team.
Basically it's a group of players who are trying to score.
Okay, so when you're good at offense, it means you're good at scoring.
And the opposite of offense is what?
Defense.
So offense, defense.
You can say they have a very strong defense.
That means that it's very hard to score against them because their defenders, their goalies,
they're all very strong.
So we're talking about an offense and a defense, both very important parts of a team.
And so the guy continued and made a little bit of a prediction saying that South Africa
will probably dominate the first half.
Okay, so you know that football matches are split into halves.
You have first half and second half.
To dominate here means to be stronger than someone else.
So to control the ball or to have possession or to be the one that is the strongest team
on the field.
So you can dominate by having a very strong defense or you can dominate by having a very
strong offense or both.
Dominate means be stronger than.
Okay, now let's move on to the other guy who doesn't really like soccer.
And he says, I have no idea what you're talking about.
All I know is that I watch the Super Bowl.
Okay, now this is a very American thing, the Super Bowl.
We mentioned earlier that in America, most people call the game soccer, not football.
Well, that's because in America, we have a different game called football.
And so the Super Bowl is like the most important game in the football world.
It's the game that happens every year at the very end of the season.
So this is what we usually call American football.
So you've probably seen it on TV as well.
And the Super Bowl is basically the name of the final sporting event of American football.
Just like we have World Cup, we have the Super Bowl.
And the winner of the Super Bowl is the best team that year.
All right, so now let's go on to explain a little bit about how the World Cup works.
The guy went on to explain that there are 32 countries competing.
And basically, we have three parts, an elimination stage, a semifinals, and quarterfinals.
Okay, so basically, this describes the different levels because obviously, 32 teams can't compete
for one trophy at first.
You have to make the numbers smaller.
So 32 becomes 16, becomes 8, becomes 4, becomes 2.
And so we have different groups for these.
The first one is the elimination stage when some teams lose and they go home.
And after that, then we have a quarterfinals.
So what is quarterfinals?
The quarterfinals are when you have eight teams that are basically the top eight teams
of the competition.
And they will play against one other opponent.
So the winner passes on to the next stage, which would be the semifinals.
Well, the math makes sense because quarter has to do with four, right?
So in the quarterfinals, eight teams become four.
And in the semifinals, four teams become two.
And then what happens after the semifinals?
And then we have the final, where basically the two top teams will compete against each
other and there will be one champion.
USA!
And this is when it gets very nationalistic.
People are very proud of their countries.
And so this basically is what happens and how we get our champion.
And well, now let's explain a little bit very quickly about two things that happen in the
game during gameplay when we have a free kick and a penalty kick.
Okay, so a kick, you know, you just kick the ball.
But sometimes when the ball goes out of bounds or when a player is injured or there's a foul,
then that player or his teammate can take a special kick.
And so a free kick is, it's just a kick from anywhere, right?
A free kick is a kick that you get basically according to the referee who says, okay, stop
the game.
He's going to kick from inside the lines.
So wherever you are fouled, wherever somebody maybe hit you wrong or something happened
from that position, you will kick freely towards the goal or wherever you want.
You can pass to your other players as well.
But a penalty kick is a bit different because you have to be in a special place when you
do it.
A penalty kick is when you are fouled inside the box, what they call it, in the area very
close to the goalie.
So if you commit a foul there, then the other player will receive a penalty kick and it
will just be him against the goalie and he must kick the ball.
I think it's approximately 10 meters if I'm not mistaken.
And this is why it's very dangerous because you're so close to the goalie and no one can
stop you.
And so when fouls happen inside that special box, it's usually bad news for the goalie.
So this is what happens during a penalty kick and well, basically you have no defenders.
So it's just you, the goalie, and it can get, as you said, very complicated for the goalie.
So all right, so we've taken a look at a lot of things on Language Takeaway.
Let's move on now to three phrases on Fluency Builder.
Okay, so this is a great word to describe how I felt last week when I watched the England
versus America match.
I thought it was a nerve-wracking game.
And we heard this in the dialogue, right?
Yeah, you said it was a very nerve-wracking game or in the dialogue the guy said, it's
a very exciting and nerve-wracking sport.
So if something's nerve-wracking, what does it mean?
Well basically if you break it down, nerves are those things in your body, in your skin
that make you feel.
So if someone hurts you, you feel it because of your nerves.
So something that is nerve-wracking makes you nervous.
It makes you anxious.
It makes you feel very sensitive.
So of course the sporting event is so exciting and you're worried that your country or your
team will lose that you're very nervous and you're very excited, you're very anxious.
A lot of things are going on.
Maybe you're sweating, maybe you're drinking a lot.
You don't want to know.
You don't want to see your team lose and so you get very nervous.
And now of course if your team is in the World Cup, you are cheering on for your team or
you're cheering them on.
Okay, so this is an interesting phrase because maybe you've heard the word to cheer before,
you know, go team, go team.
This is cheering.
But we often say I want to cheer him on.
So this on to me means like I want to cheer him on to victory.
I want to push them towards some goal.
And so you hear this a lot.
Let's cheer them on or he was really cheering me on.
It made me feel good.
Motivating you.
So to cheer someone on, cheer them on.
So obviously this is why we have cheerleaders, right?
Girls that cheer.
Give me an A. Give me a B.
These are the girls or the group of girls that cheer teams on.
Or men too.
I've seen male cheerleaders.
And now when we talked about Brazil, they are the team with the most titles under their
belt.
Okay, we're not talking about a real belt here, are we?
Under your belt or under their belt in this case means that in their history, they have
the most titles.
I think it may come from boxing or one of those sports where you actually wear a belt
that says your title.
And I think, if I'm not mistaken, sometimes a boxing belt will have various titles on
the belt.
The championship belts.
Because they wear it afterwards.
I've never heard that before, but it does make sense.
But the important thing to remember here is that it's not just sports.
You could say he has 10 years of experience in marketing under his belt.
So that means he's experienced at marketing.
So that's right.
As you said, you can use it for work experience, you can use it for titles in work, or maybe
in education you can say he's got three master's degrees under his belt.
So a lot of great stuff there.
We've taken a look at a lot of vocab, so I think we should listen to our dialogue again
Whatever, I'm going to go watch the opening match.
All right, so the World Cup, as we said, it gathers over 100 million people to watch the
final in 2006.
Now, this sport is not very popular in North America.
It's not totally true because Mexicans really follow football.
But I think in America, in the United States, it is one of the less popular sports.
I was thinking the other day, maybe number five on our list of popular sports.
Maybe because you have American football, the NFL, you have Major League Baseball, you
have the NBA, you have the NHL, and I think maybe before soccer, you probably either have
golf or tennis before soccer, even though the United States does have its own Major
League Soccer.
Yep, MLS, Major League Soccer.
And my hometown team is Chicago Fire, pretty good team.
I heard they're very good.
And the LA Galaxy, I think, is the other best team in the States.
Now, the United States did host the 1994 World Cup, and I think this is where a little bit
of more interest started to come up.
And I think Major League Soccer was formed prior to the World Cup in the United States.
Well, there's another part of it.
I mean, as young people, as children, we almost all played soccer.
I played soccer.
I know a lot of my friends did as well.
It's not popular everywhere, but a lot of people play it.
And there's not really an audience for soccer in America once you're in the professional
realm.
And so the problem is when you pass college, you don't think of it as the NBA, for example,
because there's not as big of an audience.
And so people just end up doing their normal jobs as opposed to being professional soccer
players.
I think that has a big something to do with it is the fact that there is not as much money
in this sport professionally as, for example, the NBA.
Or prestige.
Although, this is the, on the other hand, these players that do make it and they really
want to play, they go abroad and they go play in the European leagues or something like
And a lot of the players who were playing the other day against England were playing
against their teammates because so many of the American team, the American national team
play in the English Premier League.
It was really awkward.
Well, it's a really great sport.
I think it's one of the most popular sports in many other countries as well because it's
so easy.
All you need is a ball.
You need a group of people.
You put two rocks and you have a goal and you start playing.
And that's probably why it's the most international sport because it's very easy to set up.
People all over the world love it and hopefully one day the United States will kind of push
it and...
Become champion.
Well, I hope this year they'll become champions but my fingers are definitely crossed because
who knows.
So, it's a really great topic.
We want to know if your country is in the World Cup.
Have you ever qualified for a World Cup?
There are still many countries who haven't made it.
Of course, it's a very small pool.
Only 98, 199 countries compete to qualify for the World Cup and only 32 make it.
And you can also tell us who you're supporting.
We won't judge.
So, we're waiting for your comments at EnglishPod.com.
All right, good luck.
My name is Catherine and today we have a lesson for you all about life at home and life with
your parents.
We've all lived with our parents when we were younger or maybe we still do and of course
they have certain rules in the house and well, when you break those rules, something happens.
There are consequences and that's what's happening in today's dialogue.
So let's take a listen to this dialogue and when we come back, we'll be talking more about
what's going on and what some of these words and phrases mean.
Do you know what time it is?
Um, ten.
Get in this door, young man.
It's midnight.
You are two hours past curfew.
I know, but it wasn't my fault.
I told Jennifer she had to drop me off before ten, but she wouldn't leave the party.
I don't care.
You are grounded for life, mister.
Mom, that is so unfair.
You know the rules and you broke them.
No allowance and no TV for a week.
I usually never ground you, but this time I have to put my foot down.
For being a couple of hours late?
You have to be kidding.
I don't want to hear it.
Now go to your room.
So a very typical case, somebody or the kid returns home, it's too late and now they're
in trouble.
Yes, his parents are not very happy.
In this case, it's his mom who is telling him what the consequences will be.
So let's take a look at Language Takeaway and find out what some of these key words
All right, so the first word that we're going to take a look is actually something that
his mom said and he said that you are two hours past curfew.
Curfew.
So curfew has to do specifically with the time when your parents expect you at home.
So if your curfew is ten o'clock, you have to be home before or by ten o'clock.
So in this case, if the boy's curfew is ten o'clock and he arrives home at midnight, twelve
o'clock, he's two hours past curfew.
And even sometimes cities or governments will implement certain curfews at certain times.
And I don't think adults really have curfews at home.
It depends on what you want, but kids definitely have curfews.
What happens though, Marco, when you break curfew?
So this is a very serious offense and you're going to get punished.
And the way that we say this, usually parents to their children, you are grounded or you
ground that kid.
So you might have heard this word when talking about airplanes or flights at an airport.
The plane was grounded.
It basically means it can't go anywhere.
And so when you're talking about a kid or a person, you basically mean, okay, you're
grounded, you can't go out with your friends.
You can't go anywhere.
Usually you can go to school.
But you can't have fun is the meaning.
So it's usually a fixed phrase.
You're grounded.
That means that you are punished.
You can't go out.
But in this case, the mom specified saying you're grounded.
So that means that he can't go out.
But on top of that, she said no allowance and no TV for a week.
So allowance is the money that your parents give you to go out, like to go to the movies
And your parents might give this to you on a weekly basis.
So every Saturday you get $5 or on a monthly basis, every month you get $20.
And when his mother says you're not going to have any allowance for a week, that means
we're not going to give you any money this week.
So that is an allowance, how much money you get per month or per week.
The key thing about allowance though, is that it's not something you do for work.
You don't work and receive allowance.
If you work, you have a salary.
Allowance is something that you get for free from someone.
So you can get an allowance from your boss to eat, but you can also have an allowance
from your parents to do fun things.
So usually kids, obviously they can't work, so they get an allowance from their parents,
usually for fun things like going to the movies and stuff.
Now, going back a little bit, let's take a look at two ways that the mom addressed or
called her son, because obviously it's her son.
But when he got home, she said, get in this door, young man.
So, angry mom phrases.
When you're in trouble, your parents tend to use different words to talk to you.
So this is a very popular one, young man.
So it's like saying, you should be mature, but you made a mistake.
So, come inside right now, young man.
It's a way to emphasize that you are also very angry.
And also, when he was trying to explain what happened, she said, I don't care.
You're grounded for life, mister.
So these are both ways of talking to young boys.
Mister is the opposite of miss.
But in the case of a young girl, you'd say, get in this door, young lady.
And then, you're grounded for life, missy.
Missy.
Yeah, I think they say missy.
So, missy, mister, young man, young lady.
These are all ways of referring to people in kind of, it's weird.
It's kind of like they're adults, but they're not.
That's like saying, you're in trouble.
So, very interesting things going on here with this young man who got grounded.
Why don't we go back, let's take a look at our dialogue again, and we'll be back in a
10.
I told Jennifer she had to drop me off before 10, but she wouldn't leave the party.
You know the rules, and you broke them.
You're being a couple of hours late?
Now, go to your room.
So, now let's take a look at four key phrases that we've picked out for you on Fluency Builder.
So, this first phrase is something that actually we hear when the young boy or the young man
is giving his excuse for being late.
He said, listen, I told Jennifer she had to drop me off before 10.
So, the phrasal verb there is to drop off.
This means to leave someone somewhere.
But usually it means to drive someone to a certain place.
So, for example, Jennifer probably has a car, and Jennifer was supposed to take this boy
home, so he said she was going to drop me off before 10 o'clock.
That means kind of leave him at his house.
The verb is to drop off, but we usually insert the subject in between it.
So, to drop me off.
She is going to drop me off.
I dropped him off at the bank.
So, now that Jennifer was supposed to drop him off at 10, that didn't happen, so he got
grounded and his mom was saying that she usually doesn't really ground him, but this time I
have to put my foot down.
She's angry.
He's upset and she's angry and she said, listen, I have to put my foot down.
You put your foot on the ground?
It's strange to hear this phrase.
It means that she's going to be strict, that she's not going to let him just get away with
it or not ground him.
She really has to be strict and she has to punish him.
So, to put your foot down or I put my foot down, this means to be strict with someone,
to not maybe bend the rules or be flexible.
So, for example, my mother was always very, very loose with my brother.
He could do what he wanted or whatever, but one day he did something really horrible and
she finally put her foot down.
And she grounded him.
She grounded him for three months.
So, that's what happens when somebody puts their foot down.
And now, obviously, he was very surprised that he's going to be grounded for so long
and only for being a couple of hours late.
So, he said, you have to be kidding.
You have got to be kidding.
So, this is a rhetorical.
So, he's not talking about joking here.
He's saying, no way.
This is not happening to me.
You're not serious.
And I would be too.
No one likes to be grounded.
But he's saying, okay, come on.
That's too serious.
So, this is a phrase that you can use with someone if you're not really believing what
they're saying or you're surprised.
You have to be kidding me.
But usually, there's also a degree of anger.
So, you're upset at the decision.
For example, I'm watching the World Cup right now and there was a foul.
And I was very upset because I didn't think it was a foul and I said, you have got to
be kidding me.
So, that's exactly the way that we would use that phrase.
And well, obviously, the mother had made up her mind.
She's very decided.
And she said, I don't want to hear it.
So, this is the end of the conversation.
This is one of those phrases that will just stop anything you're talking about.
So, they're arguing and she says, nope, I don't want to hear it.
That means no more excuses.
No more talking.
This is the end.
And it's used in many scenarios, right?
Not only for somebody being angry or grounded, but also in a meeting.
We're doing my idea.
We're going forward with it.
Well, be careful because that's usually what the boss will say.
It's not the most gentle phrase.
And so, you have to be careful with how you use it.
But if you have authority like you're a parent or you're a boss, you can say, nope, I don't
want to hear it.
I have made my decision.
So, we've taken a look at a lot of great things.
Why don't we go back, listen to our dialogue one last time.
We'll be back in a bit.
We've all been grounded.
What is the longest you've been grounded for?
Do you remember?
I was a good girl, so maybe a week.
Yeah, maybe not even.
I never really got in trouble as a kid.
I think once I was grounded the entire summer.
Oh, rough.
Yeah, the entire summer vacation.
I don't remember exactly what I did, but my dad was pretty upset with me and yeah,
he was really strict, so I got grounded quite a bit.
I tend to think that girls get in trouble less.
I don't know if it's because they're good.
I think probably it's because they're better at hiding things from their parents.
Because whenever I would come home, my mother would always wake up, but she doesn't really
understand what time it is, and so I'd say, oh, mom, it's 11 o'clock.
Good night.
And it'd be like 4 o'clock in the morning, and she had no idea.
So who was the person or the parent that put their foot down?
Was it your mom or your dad?
My dad was the serious one.
Yeah, it's interesting because sometimes it's the dad that's very strict, and the mom kind
of helps you out and tries to kind of not get you grounded or something, but sometimes
it's the other way around.
The mom is really strict and firm, and the dad's like, come on, don't ground him.
They're just having fun.
Well, I think in some families, the children understand who is strict and who is maybe
not so strict, and so they say, oh, well, mom said that it's okay, so I think maybe
you should let me go out, and the dad will be very angry because the mother said that
it's okay.
We're really curious to get your stories, maybe tell us why were you grounded or how
long were you grounded for?
Or what was your curfew when you were a child or growing up?
Well, see you guys there.
My name is Catherine and you've been with us for a little while.
You've probably heard some of our interview series already.
Well this is one of the later episodes in that series.
We're at part number nine.
We're reaching the end of our interview and on this occasion we're going to ask our employer
a little bit of more information about the company and more importantly about the job.
Well this is a very important step.
Like you say, it's at the end of the interview so we're going to find out more details about
Let's take a listen to today's dialogue.
We'll be back in a moment to talk more about it.
Could you tell me a little about the organization?
For example, how big is your office here?
Well in total we have around 150 employees based in Hong Kong with another 400 in our
head office in Beijing.
The news desk staff in Hong Kong has around 80 staff.
And how about the working hours?
Well as you know Rebecca, in journalism work hours are not exactly nine to five.
You could be on call at any time but we do have to work very unsociable hours at times.
Well I'm used to that Mr Parsons.
So that's not really a shock for me.
As long as you understand that.
And when do you need to fill the vacancy Mr Parsons?
Yesterday but no.
We're hoping to start from the beginning of next month.
That sounds like deal.
So it's obviously a very difficult job and she asked some very key questions.
So why don't we take a look at a couple of the words and phrases used there on Language
The first word that we have here for Language Takeaway is workforce.
That's right a workforce.
The company's workforce.
And that basically means all the employees that we have working for us.
That might not be in one office.
Many companies have two, three, even a hundred offices.
So the workforce means all the people who work for the company combined.
So a workforce.
And well she asked about the workforce and well it's obviously a pretty big company.
150 employees.
But he also mentioned that the news desk staff in Hong Kong comprises around 80 people or
80 staff.
So this verb to comprise or in this case it comprises means to make up or to account for.
It's a very nice word to say it accounts for, it makes up, it's the total.
It's the total right.
So in this case the news desk staff has 80 people.
That's a very easy way to say it.
But we could say it comprises 80 people.
It sounds a bit better.
So now obviously she's going to be a reporter or a journalist and he said that she should
be on call at any time.
On call is a phrase that we often hear with jobs like journalism but also medicine.
So doctors have to be on call very often.
This means that you don't have to be in the office but you have to be available to come
into the office.
So when someone calls you and they say we have an emergency you have to be available.
And you see it in movies all the time.
You know doctors are on call and maybe they're already sleeping or maybe they're out I don't
know playing soccer with their kids and they receive a phone call and they have to go to
the hospital in that moment.
It's because they're on call.
That's because they're on call.
And so obviously this is a very difficult thing for someone.
And he explains that the work has very unsociable hours at times.
Okay so you can say that the hours are unsociable.
You can also say that a person is unsociable.
It basically means that it's not very convenient for being a social person or for going out
with friends and having many events to go to or fun things to do in your personal life.
So if a person is unsociable it means that maybe that person is not very outgoing or
maybe is always angry or grumpy so that person doesn't get along well with others.
So in this case it doesn't mean that it's a grumpy job.
It just means that because she might have to work at night very often or on the weekends
it's very hard to have a social life.
Okay so obviously this job is very difficult but in the end she was really happy with it
and she said that sounds ideal, her starting time.
So something is ideal if it's perfect or great or the top.
Many people talk about the ideal job, right?
The perfect job.
So that's the job that you have in your mind when you think of what is the best.
So maybe my ideal job is different from your ideal job.
So you have ideal jobs or your ideal house or your dream house.
Your ideal husband.
So ideal, idealism.
So why don't we listen to the dialogue again.
Let's review what Rebecca and Mr. Parsons talked about and we'll be back in a little
bit with Fluency Builder.
Well, in total we have around 150 employees based in Hong Kong with another 400 in our
Well, as you know Rebecca, in journalism work hours are not exactly 9 to 5.
You could be on call at any time, but we do have to work very unsociable hours at times.
Well, I'm used to that Mr. Parsons.
And when do you need to fill the vacancy Mr. Parsons?
Yesterday, but no.
That sounds ideal.
So now we have four phrases for you prepared on Fluency Builder.
This first phrase is something that we say all the time in English, but I think a lot
of learners make mistakes when they use it.
The phrase is how about.
So you see that Rebecca was listening to what Mr. Parsons said and she said, and how about
the working hours?
So this is a way to say, and what are the working hours?
But basically it's a way to continue the conversation.
You can say this in many different ways, but it basically means, and what about?
Or, please tell me about.
Now remember that many English learners mistake the phrase how about as if they were saying,
how are you?
Or how is it?
You have to be following someone else in the conversation.
So for example, I could say, you know what?
I'm going to have a hamburger with bacon.
How about you Marco?
What are you going to eat?
How about you buy me a cheeseburger?
Okay, so this is basically a way of saying, okay, well maybe I'll have a cheeseburger
or what are you going to have?
So now it's important to say, don't ever make this question.
Don't ever ask, how about your weekend?
How was your weekend?
My weekend was great.
How about yours?
That's continuing the conversation saying, mine was good.
How was yours?
So what did he say?
He said that when they were talking about the work hours, he said that the work hours
are not exactly nine to five.
Okay, so this is a kind of a set phrase we use often in English because a lot of people
traditionally have worked from 9am to 5pm.
They have a break at lunch, then they go home.
So this is a kind of measure for, this is a way to describe traditional working hours
or traditional jobs.
So you can say, yeah, I have a really nice nine to five job.
You could say, I really don't want to work a nine to five job.
So you don't want a traditional job where you're working from nine to five.
Most people I think work a little bit longer than that, but this is just a way of saying
a traditional job.
Nine to five job.
Now, why don't we move on to Rebecca saying that she is used to working long hours or
being on call.
So this construction, to be used to, I'm used to doing this, is a way to say that I already
do this.
This is my experience or I have the habit of working unusual hours.
So maybe for example, you live in a very noisy area in your neighborhood and somebody comes
and visits you and they can't sleep because it's so noisy.
You are used to it.
Oh, you say, Oh, I don't mind.
I'm used to the noise.
But your friend who's visiting is not used to it.
They don't have this noise at home.
So that's what happens and it can't sleep.
So when you are used to something, you have the habit or you're accustomed to it.
Our last phrase comes at the end and Rebecca is talking about the start date for this job.
She wants to know, when do you need to fill the vacancy?
To fill the vacancy.
Now, we have this word vacancy and that means that it's available, right?
So vacancy is an available thing.
It could be a vacant place.
Like an apartment?
Like an apartment.
In this case, a vacancy in a company.
That means a job that is available.
So she is asking when she can fill the vacancy.
So we use the verb fill, to fill a vacancy.
And this sounds a lot better than saying, Hey, when do I start working here?
This is a polite way to say, when is the job going to begin?
When do you need to fill the vacancy by?
I guess another way of saying it would be, when is the starting date?
So as we say, also fill the vacancy is a very good option.
But don't say, when do I start working?
Or when do we start?
Yeah, no, we can talk about that in a minute.
Let's listen first to our dialogue one more time.
We'll be back shortly.
Well, in total we have around 150 employees based in Hong Kong, with another 400 in our
Well, as you know, Rebecca, in journalism, work hours are not exactly nine to five.
You could be on call at any time.
But we do have to work very unsociable hours at times.
Well, I'm used to that, Mr. Parsons.
Good, as long as you understand that.
And when do you need to fill the vacancy, Mr. Parsons?
Yesterday, but no, we are hoping to start from the beginning of next month.
So talking about working hours, being on call or unsociable working hours, have you ever
had a job where you've had to work maybe through the night?
Yes, I used to work in a movie theater when I was in college.
I had a day job too, so it was kind of a mess.
I was very unsociable.
But I worked at a movie theater and I would start working at 6 p.m. or 5 p.m. and I would
work until 2 or 3 a.m.
And so it was always busiest on Friday and Saturday.
And so I could never go out with my friends.
So while everyone was partying, you were at the movie theater.
Or they would come to the movies and I would sneak in and bring them popcorn.
So these unusual working hours, it's very interesting because usually, although it is
a little bit more of a sacrifice, they usually pay a little bit better, right?
They do and there are some advantages.
It means that you get to sleep in really late.
You don't have to wake up early.
And you have the day off, like the entire day to do something.
Have you ever worked unusual hours?
I used to work for a newspaper and obviously people like their newspaper in the mornings.
So bright and early.
Bright and early.
We're talking about 6 a.m.
So obviously, we would deliver the newspapers around 1 a.m., 2 a.m.
From 1 a.m. to about 6 a.m.
So yeah, pretty unusual and very difficult because, for example, some people, for them,
it's great to see the sunrise.
I've seen so many sunrises and it's not really romantic for me anymore.
We would call you a night owl.
Someone who's more awake at night.
That's right and I still am.
So we're really interested to know maybe if you had any unusual working hours.
Or do you work a 9 to 5?
Yeah, do you have a 9 to 5 job?
So come to our website EnglishPod.com, let us know and we'll see everyone there.
My name is Katrin and today we have a very dangerous lesson for you guys.
Today we're going to talk about guns or specifically about weapons.
So yeah, we're talking about kinds of guns.
There are more than I think I ever knew and we're going to discuss about six today.
But before we get going, Marco, we've got a phrase in vocabulary preview.
So today on vocabulary preview, we're going to take a look at shooting range.
Have you ever been to one of these places?
Yes, a shooting range.
It's a place like you say, and it's a place where you can fire your weapons or you can
use guns safely so you don't kill anyone or you don't hurt someone.
No, basically, yeah, it's a place to practice shooting.
So maybe for example, if you want to practice how to shoot guns, you go to this place and
they have special things to help you improve your shooting abilities.
Usually these are very, very secure.
They have guards and things because you don't want to give the guns out to anybody.
But let's listen to today's dialogue about a shooting range and find out what kinds of
guns they have.
Hey Nick, what are you up to?
Just heading over to the shooting range.
You want to come?
You mean to fire a real weapon?
I don't know, man.
Yeah, it will be fun.
I have a 9mm pistol that's really easy to shoot.
I also have a revolver that's really fun too.
They have big targets at the range that we could use to practice and improve your aim.
Yeah, that would be cool.
Maybe I can also have a try at other weapons like a machine gun or a shotgun.
Maybe even a rocket launcher or an anti-tank missile.
Or what about a flamethrower?
Whoa, take it easy there, Rambo.
Don't get carried away.
These weapons are not toys and you must first learn how to handle them properly.
There are basic rules that you must abide by in order to be safe.
For example, never handle a weapon that you haven't inspected yourself.
Always make sure there isn't anything in the chamber and never put your finger to the trigger
unless you are ready to shoot.
It always looks so cool and easy in the movies.
The reality is different, you know.
Running and firing a weapon is a lot harder than in the movies.
So are you ready?
Let's do it!
So obviously this guy was very excited about using these weapons.
And you may have heard that we're using this word weapons.
It's basically all of these things.
I guess anything that can be used in defense or hurt someone.
Yes, anything that can be used to hurt someone as a weapon.
So a knife can be a weapon, not just guns.
Guns are a kind of weapon.
So if we're looking at our first type of gun or our first type of weapon, we have a 9mm
pistol.
Okay, so the weapon is the pistol.
And the pistol is basically a handgun.
But it comes in different sizes.
So that's what the 9mm refers to.
That's the size of the projectile that will come out of the weapon.
And a pistol, as you said, it's a handgun.
It's usually small.
And it can fit in your hand, so you can use just one hand to use this weapon.
Okay, so there's a similar handgun that's a little bit bigger.
That's called a revolver.
That's right, a revolver.
So this one has a revolving chamber.
So you kind of see this in the old western movies when they have six bullets, right?
And they like swing their guns into their side holsters.
Well, yeah, that's right.
The revolver refers to the...
Well, to revolve, it means to move around, to spin.
So the place with the bullets basically spins after you shoot the gun.
So that's why it's called a revolver.
Unlike the pistol, the pistol will usually not really have a revolver.
It will have a magazine.
Now, moving on to our next type of weapon, we have the very famous machine gun.
That's the one that shoots off really fast.
And so basically, it's called a machine gun because it's automatically releasing all these
bullets at once.
You just pull the trigger and many, many, many bullets come out.
So in a pistol or in a revolver, usually you have to press the trigger once and it shoots
only once.
But in a machine gun, you can keep it pressed and all these bullets will start flying out.
Very, very dangerous.
Very dangerous.
So now moving on to the next one, we also took a look at a shotgun.
This is...
Well, this is not the biggest gun we're going to talk about today.
But it's a very large gun, very long, and you have to use two hands to hold it.
This is what you usually use when you go hunting, right?
So as you said, it's very long and it's very loud.
And it doesn't really shoot bullets.
It shoots little pellets, little cartridges that are filled with little rocks, for example.
And that's what it shoots.
And this is why it's not very precise like a machine gun or a handgun, but it does a
lot of damage.
And what's something else that does a lot of damage?
Our next gun will do that.
Well, this guy got a little bit excited and he said he wanted to use a rocket launcher.
So you know what a rocket is.
A rocket is something that's basically a projectile that goes into the sky and can basically blow
up big buildings or cars.
And that's what a rocket launcher is.
Now, maybe you've heard of the word bazooka.
A bazooka is a type of rocket launcher.
It's the one...
It's very, very, very wide and it's circular.
And you usually see it in movies like Rambo, we talked about, where Rambo will hold it
on one shoulder.
And the rocket shoots out and can destroy huge buildings.
So that's why it's called a rocket launcher.
Now for our last type of weapon, we have a flamethrower.
Well, a flame refers to fire.
So fire has flames.
Those are the parts that kind of come up on a fire.
They're red and orange.
And a flamethrower is a device, is a weapon that will shoot flames, not bullets.
It was very popular back in World War II to actually shoot the flamethrower into bunkers
or into holes because then this is how you can get people out of there.
And I think flamethrowers are used now to some sort of degree like to fumigate sometimes
or to burn weeds when you're in a field.
But they're not really used as weapons anymore.
Although I think that I've seen a number of them in action movies.
In action movies, of course.
So we have a lot of guns, a lot of different types of weapons.
Why don't we go back to the dialogue?
Let's listen to it again and we'll be back soon with Fluency Builder.
Hey Nick.
What are you up to?
So now let's take a look at our phrases that we've picked out for you on Fluency Builder.
So this first phrase comes from the beginning of today's dialogue when Nick is saying,
well I'm not doing much, I'm just heading over to the shooting range.
So we know what shooting range is but when he says I'm heading over to the shooting range.
Well this can be confusing because to head over has nothing to do with the head on your
It means I'm going towards some place.
I'm going to this place.
So it's just another way of saying going to, right?
So for example, you can say I'm heading over to my friend's house this afternoon.
That's right, so I'm going to my friend's house this afternoon.
But remember that this is a pretty relaxed, pretty informal way of saying something so
you wouldn't say I'm heading over to work.
You say hey I'm heading over to his house to hang out or I'm heading over to the pizza
restaurant to grab a bite to eat.
So now obviously we saw that one of the guys got very excited about the idea of using all
these cool weapons and his friend said whoa, take it easy there Rambo.
This phrase is something you say to someone who is maybe too excited about something.
It means don't go crazy.
Don't exaggerate.
So maybe at the shooting range they'll have a revolver and they'll have a pistol but they're
probably not going to have a rocket launcher or as he said an anti-tank missile.
These are crazy weapons from movies.
And so the friend is saying no, you're exaggerating.
Now for example maybe you go to the mall and you go shopping and maybe you got a little
bit carried away and you spent too much money.
That always happens to me during the holidays.
I get carried away and I buy way too much stuff.
So that's the way that you would use carried away.
And now for our last phrase, he was actually explaining a couple of rules of weapon handling
and he said that there are some rules that he has to abide by.
So this is a fixed phrase.
We use the verb to abide with a word like the rules.
So to abide by the rules or we must all abide by the rules.
This is a fancy way of saying to follow the rules or to recognize the rules.
So you have to abide by the rules of your school or maybe you have to, everyone has
to abide by the law.
Or some people can say there are rules in the Bible that other people abide by.
I think we've taken a look at a lot of different types of weapons and phrases.
So pretty interesting stuff.
Why don't we listen to it for the last time.
I don't know man.
I'm having fun.
That would be cool.
Take it easy there Rambo.
The reality is different you know.
So talking about weapons and pistols and all this.
Have you ever used one of these?
Have you ever shot?
I have been to a couple shooting ranges and have fired a couple of guns.
I've never fired a shotgun.
They don't usually.
Well sometimes.
Sometimes they have a shotgun.
Sometimes they have them.
But I've shot pistols before.
And do you like it?
I like it.
It's an interesting activity.
I don't know how I feel about using guns on people but I understand why hunting is an
enjoyable sport because there is a sport aspect to it.
You know you really have to control your body and you can improve.
You can get better.
It's like darts but with loud guns.
And it's very hard to aim actually to hit something.
People think it's very easy like in the movies.
Well and I think it's particularly hard with handguns.
Because they're very powerful.
Some of them can be very powerful.
And so there's a kick.
And you don't realize it the first time you shoot a gun.
You're like oh that was way harder than it looks in the movies.
I bet you're a good shot right?
I've always really enjoyed weapons and my aim is alright.
Although my eyesight kind of.
I need to use glasses so it can be a little bit tricky sometimes.
Especially when you shoot a weapon sometimes it's very.
You just cleaned it so it has a lot of oil and it'll kick out into your face and get
your glasses wet.
Well that's why we use goggles at the shooting ranges that I go to.
But I'm curious to know have you guys ever shot a gun before?
Have you ever been to a shooting range?
Are shooting ranges legal in your country?
Some places they're not.
My name's Andrew Cline for Android Authenticated and we'll see ya!
My name is Kathryn and today we're going to play a game.
Today we're going to describe someone's face.
So we're going to try to guess who that person is.
Okay, so there are lots of really great words to describe people's faces in this lesson.
Let's take a listen to today's dialogue and we'll be back in a moment to talk about what's
Let's play a game.
Okay, how about Scrabble?
A friend of mine taught me this really fun game.
I'm going to describe someone's face and you guess who it is.
He has a Roman nose, bushy eyebrows, and dimples.
Our cousin Pete.
He has a pointy nose, sunken eyes, and a mole on her chin.
Aunt Rose.
That mole is so huge.
He has a crooked nose and full lips.
He has quite a few freckles and an oval face.
Oh, he's also bald.
Your future husband.
All right, we're back so now let's take a look at five key words that we have to describe
someone's face on Language Takeaway.
So we've got a couple words for noses here.
They're adjectives to describe noses.
The first one that we heard is Roman nose.
So if someone has a Roman nose, does that mean they're from Rome?
No, not quite.
Well, Rome as we know is a city in Italy but it's also an adjective here.
Roman means that the nose is straight on top.
It's like a triangle.
But it's kind of long.
You have kind of a long straight nose, right?
A very long straight nose.
So we have Roman nose, somebody that has a long straight nose.
Now what about a pointy nose?
A pointy nose means that the tip of the nose is pointy.
So maybe it goes up a little bit, goes down and then up.
But usually there's a point on the tip of the nose.
Or sometimes the nose is very thin, right?
It's not very wide so it looks very pointy.
So it kind of gets very narrow at the end there.
And now maybe you broke your nose once or you had an accident and some people have a
crooked nose.
Yeah, a lot of very famous football players have crooked noses because you get hit in
the face with the football and then your nose always has a bump.
Something is crooked if it's not straight.
So crooked is the opposite of a Roman nose or a straight nose.
So maybe you see boxers also I think have crooked nose.
Most of them are hockey players and stuff like that.
Yeah, they take a lot of hits to the face.
Okay, so now moving on that we've described noses in many ways.
You can say long nose, short nose or whatever but this is another way of doing it.
And what about eyebrows?
Okay, eyebrows are those lines of hair above your eyes.
And some people have really thick eyebrows.
Some people have very thin eyebrows.
But if someone has thick eyebrows, lots of hair, we call them bushy eyebrows.
So if you have bushy eyebrows, it means that you have a lot of hair as you said on your
eyebrows or over your eye.
And now this is a really I think kind of a nice feature that some people have on their
cheeks.
We have dimples.
I love dimples.
Not many people have them.
But these are two little dots, little indentations that appear when a person smiles.
Maybe you've seen this or maybe you have this or a friend has this.
Somebody smiles and on their cheeks towards the middle of the cheek, they have little
holes that form that look like, I don't know, like somebody kind of pinched it with a needle.
Yeah, like it goes down a little bit for some reason.
It goes like yeah, they're being pinched inside their cheek.
Those are called dimples.
Dimples.
Okay, so a lot of great stuff there in the first part.
Let's review what we've heard.
Let's go back to the dialogue and we'll be back in a bit.
How about Scrabble?
He has a Roman nose, bushy eyebrows and dimples.
She has a pointy nose, sunken eyes and a mole on her chin.
So now we're going to take a look at even more words on how to describe a face.
So now let's take a look at Language Takeaway Part 2.
Okay, so the first word has to do with the eyes.
We just talked about the eyebrows.
Those are above your eyes.
Well, what happens if your eyes are very, very deep in your face?
Okay, we heard that in the dialogue.
We heard that in the dialogue described as sunken eyes.
So sunken means very far back or very deep in something.
Think about a sunken ship.
It's under the water, under the ocean.
So someone with sunken eyes probably has dark rings under their eyes because their eyes
are so deep in their head.
And the opposite, maybe you've seen people that have eyes that are almost like popping
out a little bit.
His eyes pop out.
That means they come out of the face.
They're closer to the skin.
Okay, and now this is something that many people have and even some models have become
famous because of this.
Many times called a beauty mark.
We're talking about moles.
Cindy Crawford is probably the model you're talking about.
She had a very famous mole.
A mole is basically a spot on your skin that's very, very dark.
So sometimes there's hair on it.
Sometimes its texture is different.
But it can be big, it can be small.
But it's a change of texture on your skin.
So usually it's like a little brown ball if it's big.
And sometimes they just look like little spots on your skin, little dark brown spots.
But they're not the same as something else we heard in today's dialogue.
So we'll wait for that.
But a mole usually comes a little bit off the skin.
And it's usually bigger than other dots.
And I think what you're talking about is freckles.
That's right, freckles.
A lot of people have these when they're children.
They come on your nose and your cheeks and even your arms.
And they're smooth with your skin.
They don't come off your skin.
They're not puffy.
And I think many of you maybe if you have lighter skin may have freckles.
And that's usually just little spots but of just different color on your skin.
So usually people that have maybe red hair, they have freckles.
Like maybe from the Harry Potter movie, Harry Potter's best friend, I think Ron.
Ron, yeah.
You can see he has freckles.
On his skin he has lots of little dots.
Because he has very pale skin and red hair.
So these are called freckles.
And now when we talked about lips, a nice way of describing lips, you can say big lips
but that just means that they're big, right?
But what about if that person has full lips?
Full lips is a great way to describe big lips.
We would say someone like Angelina Jolie has very full lips.
This means that they're not thin but they've got a lot of puff to them.
They have a lot of texture.
As you said, Angelina Jolie is probably the best example of someone with full lips.
And now what about bald?
Someone who's bald.
Who's a good example for this?
So this next word we've got is bald.
Who's a famous bald person?
Maybe you've heard of Kobe Bryant.
That basketball player.
Now he's not completely bald.
He actually shaves his head.
But anyone who shaves their head also or has no hair on their head is considered to be
a bald person.
So bald means no hair on their head.
Now sometimes naturally people become bald.
Hair falls off as the years go by and no more hair grows on their head.
So they're bald.
So this happens to a lot of people, especially men.
They lose their hair.
Some people have a little bit of hair.
Some people lose all of their hair.
But when you lose hair on your head, it's called going bald.
So now we have a lot of words and how we can describe people.
And so why don't we go back, listen to the dialogue again, and we'll be back to talk
So we've talked a lot about the different parts of the face, but we have not talked
about one important part.
That's the bottom of a person's face along that bone there.
What's that part called?
That's called the chin.
So we could say some people have very, very prominent or big chins, right?
Like for example, Jay Leno.
His chin is so big.
It's almost a joke among people that he has this big chin.
So he has a long chin.
Now, other people may have a very square chin.
So it's almost like it looks like a square on the bottom of their face.
Otherwise, you could have a round chin.
And the opposite part of the face is also very important.
We call it not the top of your head, but we call it your forehead.
Your forehead.
Now, some people have a very big forehead, right?
Because maybe their hair grows a little bit further back.
And other people have smaller foreheads that you almost can't even really see.
Or sometimes they just hide it with their hair.
And actually talking about chins, there's another type of chin that's also very popular.
John Travolta's chin.
He has a dimple in his chin.
I remember we were talking about dimples, those little holes.
You can have them in other places and the chin is one of them.
So I think that's called a butt chin, if I'm not mistaken, right?
I'm not even going to ask.
I've heard it before.
I'm not sure how to answer you, but yeah.
So maybe this is a good time to encourage you all to tell us about your facial features
or to describe someone for us.
Use some of the vocabulary that you heard today.
Or maybe you even just want to describe someone famous and we can guess who you're talking
Good challenge.
So we will see you on our website, EnglishPod.com.
Thanks very much for having us.
My name is Catherine and if you've been following along with us recently, you'll know that we
have a series about interviewing in English.
And so today we have the very last episode of that series.
Today is the last part of our interview series and we're basically just saying goodbye and
we're doing some other things when you're leaving an interview.
It's very important the things that you say.
That's right because this is the last thing that you're going to do in the interview so
it's what your interviewer will remember.
Well Rebecca, is there anything else you need to know for now?
I don't think so Mr. Parsons.
I think you have covered all the main points for me.
Okay, well listen.
Here's my business card with my mobile number.
If any other questions spring to mind, don't hesitate to contact me.
Of course you can also call Ms. Childs too.
When can I expect to hear from you?
Well we are finishing the short list interviews tomorrow so we will certainly have a decision
made by early next week.
Ms. Childs will call you to discuss more on Monday or Tuesday.
That sounds perfect.
Thank you very much for taking the time to speak to me Mr. Parsons.
The pleasure is all mine Rebecca.
I hope to hear from you very soon.
Thanks for coming Rebecca.
Alright, great.
So really good things from Rebecca.
She said some very interesting things, key things there.
So why don't we take a look at those on Language Takeaway.
At the beginning of the end of the interview, Rebecca says, listen, I think you have covered
all the main points for me.
So this is after Mr. Parsons asks her if she has questions.
And this word covered is very important.
So if we talk about cover, to cover the main points or to cover a topic, it means to discuss
it thoroughly or to have it finished.
So if I still have questions, we have not covered everything.
But if I did ask all the questions that I have, then we've covered everything.
So the verb here is to cover.
So Rebecca says, well, you know what, here's my business card with my mobile number.
So this word business card, key element of any interview or any business situation.
As you say, a key part of any business interaction.
So a business card is a very small card, usually thick, and it has a person's name, job, phone
number and sometimes email address now on the card.
So the information can change, but it's a contact card basically for one person.
So it's important to have around, especially in situations like this.
And moving on, he also told her that if she has any other questions to not hesitate and
to contact him.
This is a very common phrase.
Don't hesitate to contact me or don't hesitate to ask.
So to hesitate means to be nervous about something or to maybe not do it because you're uncomfortable.
So, you know, Marco, I want to ask you something, but I'm not sure if I want to ask you, maybe
you'll be angry or so.
I'm hesitating.
The verb here is to hesitate.
You have doubts.
I have doubts.
And so he says, don't hesitate to contact me.
That means any questions, any issues, please call me.
And Mr. Parson said that they are finishing the short list of interviews tomorrow.
So what does it mean a short list?
Well, a short list is something we talk about during the interview process because the interviewer,
so in this case, Mr. Parsons will have a long list of people who want the job.
And maybe after the first interview, he will cut the list down to a very small number of
people, 10 or 15.
And that is called the short list.
So those are the people who did well on the first interview, but who maybe should come
back for a second or third interview.
A lot of great things there.
Why don't we take a break?
Let's go back and listen to the dialogue.
Let's see what Mr. Parsons and Rebecca said.
And we'll be back with some really good phrases that you can close off an interview with.
Well, Rebecca, is there anything else you need to know for now?
I don't think so, Mr. Parsons.
Okay, well, listen.
Of course, you can also call Ms. Childs, too.
Well, we are finishing the short list interviews tomorrow, so we will certainly have a decision
Thank you very much for taking the time to speak to me, Mr. Parsons.
Thanks for coming, Rebecca.
So now let's take a look at those phrases we mentioned on Fluency Builder.
So let's go back to the beginning where Mr. Parsons is talking about questions that Rebecca
might have.
And so Mr. Parsons says, if any other questions spring to mind, don't hesitate to contact
So this phrase, spring to mind, is very interesting.
Well, basically if something springs to your mind or springs to mind, it means that it
comes very suddenly and quickly into your mind.
It just pops into your head.
So to spring or springs in this case is like jumping.
So something hits your mind very quickly, comes into your mind very quickly.
So oh, I don't really have any ideas, Marco, for that party next week, but if anything
springs to mind, you should let me know.
If you have any sudden ideas or anything you suddenly remember, that's what it means to
spring to mind.
So taking a look at these expressions that Rebecca used when she's leaving, for example,
you know that you finished the interview and a typical question that you want to make is,
when can I expect to hear from you?
This is a great question at the end of an interview because it's basically a way of
saying, listen, I'm interested in this job.
When will you call me about it?
And so the phrase, when can I expect to hear from you means, when will you tell me your
decision?
But it's a lot more polite and formal and better than saying, when are you going to
call me?
Yeah, you would never say that in an interview because it makes you sound desperate, like
you really need the job.
In this case, you know, when can I expect to hear from you?
It's like, oh, well, you know, I hope that you'll get in touch with me.
So she explained that they're shortlisting everything and that they will be in touch
with her very soon.
And she said, wow, that sounds perfect.
Thank you very much for taking the time to speak to me.
Okay, so this phrase, thank you very much for taking the time to speak to me, it's very
long.
But you know what thank you very much means.
The key here is for taking the time to do something.
Now what does this mean?
What's another way we can use this?
It's basically saying thank you so much for giving me an opportunity to talk to you.
I know you're very busy and I know you don't have a lot of time.
So thank you very much for taking the time to speak to me.
So you could even use this with a teacher at school.
You know, you have a question, your teacher is busy, but your teacher makes some time
to meet with you.
You say, hey, listen, professor or listen, teacher, thank you so much for taking the
time to speak to me.
You're just demonstrating that you appreciate the effort and the time.
And you're being very polite.
And then the last phrase, when Rebecca is leaving the room, they're shaking hands maybe
and Rebecca says, I hope to hear from you very soon.
You can say I hope to hear from you soon.
But in this case, she's saying, listen, I really want this job.
She doesn't want to say, call me, you know, call me tomorrow.
She says, I hope to hear from you soon.
I hope that this works out that I get the job.
So she's basically demonstrating a lot of interest saying, well, I really like the job
and I really would like for you to call me and give me good news.
So I hope to hear from you soon.
So let's listen to today's dialogue one more time and we'll be back in a moment to talk
a little bit more about how to end an interview.
Well, listen, here's my business card with my mobile number.
Of course, you can also call Ms. Childs too.
Um, when can I expect to hear from you?
So this is a great way of ending an interview.
Rebecca did a really good job, and I think there are a couple of suggestions or tips
that you would like to give our users.
Yeah, well, one of them is don't, at the end of the interview, ask the person if you have
They'll say, we will be in touch, or thank you so much for coming in.
But if they don't say, we would really like to have you join this company, then you probably
shouldn't ask.
You should say, you know, when can I expect to hear from you?
That's more polite.
Because I think a lot of times, if you didn't get the job, it makes the interviewer feel
very uncomfortable.
But also, it's just a polite thing to do.
So be careful with that.
And I've also been told from people in business that if you do receive a job offer, don't
accept right away.
Say I will think about it, and I'll get back in touch with you.
Oh, OK.
Kind of like a strategy maybe to better negotiate the terms and conditions.
So you want to take that information, you want to go home, you want to think about it,
talk about it with your wife or your husband, and decide, is this something I want?
And then you can contact the employer.
Yeah, I think that's a very good idea.
And also, I think it's not a wise thing to call or contact the employer asking if you've
got the job or asking if they have any news yet, because I think that can be a little
bit annoying.
But if they say, we will be in touch on Tuesday, and it's a week later, and they never got
back to you, send a follow up.
A follow up is an email or a letter or even a phone call where you say, listen, I'm really
glad I got to meet you today.
I hope that we have the opportunity to work together in the future.
Always be in touch.
Sincerely, and then your name.
Kind of like a reminder.
It's a reminder, like, I want the job.
Here's my information.
Or at least if I didn't get the job, let me know that I didn't get it.
So a lot of great advice here.
Great things coming.
And we'll be back again with another series.
We're going to have a presentation series.
So be sure to keep an eye out for that.
And if you have any other questions or comments, we're always at EnglishPod.com where you can
find us.
My name is Catherine and today we're talking about where people come from or nationalities.
Many people come from many different countries just like our listeners and there are specific
words or adjectives and nouns to describe people.
Like for example, somebody who is from China.
A Chinese person.
So in your case, Marco, you are an Ecuadorian.
So that means I come from the country Ecuador.
I, on the other hand, am an American.
I come from America.
So we have a lot of these examples.
Why don't we jump into the dialogue.
Let's see where all of the people from this international class are from and we'll be
back to talk about it.
Hey how was your first day of class?
I'm a level two and I'm loving my class this semester.
It's great being in a class of international students.
Mine was okay except that no one in my class speaks English.
I guess it will force me to converse in Chinese more in class so at least I should improve
a lot this semester.
That's both fortunate and unfortunate.
It's the United Nations in my class.
We have people from all over the world.
There are three Germans, a Pole, a Scot, two French, an American, a Brazilian, a Chilean,
a New Zealander, though he prefers to call himself a Kiwi.
Oh we have a Moroccan, a Tagolese, a Pakistani, and two Indonesians.
That's quite the array of nationalities.
Everyone in my class is from Asia except me.
There are a few South Koreans, several Japanese, Malaysian, Thai, Singaporean, Filipino, Kazakhstani,
and one Russian.
Well I think you're pretty lucky actually.
You have the opportunity to learn so much about Asian culture.
I guess so but I think it's going to be hard to relate to my classmates especially with
the language barrier.
I think I might change classes.
Don't stay the course.
Your spoken Chinese will be eternally grateful.
I bet you it will even surpass mine with all that practice.
I highly doubt it.
Your girlfriend is Chinese.
Well there is that, yes.
So the student jokes that their class is kind of like the United Nations.
So it does sound like it.
We have so many different nationalities that we're going to look at them in two groups
But the United Nations as you know is a political group that has people from all over the world
who make decisions about politics and the environment, things like that.
So why don't we take a look at these nationalities now on Language Takeaway.
The first few are from Europe.
So these are some European nationalities.
We've got German.
Where is a German from?
A German is from Germany.
Okay, so next to Germany we have another country, Poland.
What do we call a person from Poland?
You call that person a Pole.
So is this for a woman and a man or is this just one gender?
Yeah, it's for both.
Okay, so Pole.
Yeah, a girl that's from Poland would be also a Pole.
Now someone that comes from Scotland on the other hand.
That would be a Scot or if it's a man, a Scotsman.
Scotsman, okay.
Now this is interesting because we are mentioning the nouns of these nationalities like for
example German.
Now when we took a look at Pole from Poland, what would be the adjective?
Do I say I am Pole?
I am Polish.
Or if you want to use the noun, I am a Pole.
But the adjective can be used for things as well.
I love to eat Polish sausages.
Or for example or something from Scotland, you can say I love Scottish whiskey.
Or I love Scottish kilts, those skirts.
Alright, so that's the adjective.
But in the case of France, the country France, we have to say as a noun, he is a Frenchman.
Okay, and if it's a woman, a Frenchwoman.
That's right or in the case of an adjective, I love to eat French bread.
Now moving on to South America, we took a look at a Brazilian and a Chilean.
Okay, so Brazil, Brazilian.
In this country, there are many Brazilians.
And Chile or Chile as many Americans say, has people called Chileans.
Some people say Chilean.
So I don't know, I guess the accent varies a little bit.
Now why don't we move back to the other side of the world.
We have a New Zealander.
Alright, so many of you have heard of Australia.
Maybe New Zealand is not as famous.
It's a small country near Australia.
And the people who come from there are called New Zealanders.
It's very hard to say those sometimes, especially when we have to use the adjective New Zealand.
So the student said he prefers to call himself a Kiwi.
Alright, so Kiwi was a special kind of bird that could only be found in New Zealand.
And so this became a very popular symbol for New Zealand.
And now people from New Zealand call themselves Kiwis.
So I could say I have many Kiwi friends.
Okay, Kiwis.
So now if we go to the African continent, we have Moroccan and Togolese.
So Morocco is in North Africa and a person who comes from there is Moroccan.
You can also say I like to eat Moroccan food, which is very popular.
But when we talk about the country Togo, what do we call a person from that country?
Togolese.
So it's Togo.
That's the way you pronounce it.
Because if you look at it, I would say Togo.
But it's not Togo.
It's Togo.
Or as my French-speaking friends would say, Togo.
Alright, so that's our first set of nationalities.
Let's listen to today's dialogue one more time and we'll be back in a moment to discuss
the other nationalities.
Hey, how was your first day of class?
Mine was okay, except that no one in my class speaks English.
I guess it will force me to converse in Chinese more in class, so at least I should improve
Oh, we have a Moroccan, a Togolese, a Pakistani, and two Indonesians.
Everyone in my class is from Asia, except me.
Well, I think you're pretty lucky, actually.
I guess so, but I think it's going to be hard to relate to my classmates, especially with
Don't!
Stay the course.
Your Chinese will be eternally grateful.
Well, there is that, yes.
So now we have more nationalities prepared for you.
So let's take a look at those now on Language Takeaway Part 2.
Language Takeaway We're in Asia for this part of today's lesson,
so we're going to start with a country called Pakistan.
What do we call the people from Pakistan?
We say they are Pakistani.
Okay, so in Chicago, for example, there are many Pakistanis.
Okay, and moving on to Southeast Asia, we have Indonesians.
All right, Indonesia is the country, and people who come from there are Indonesian.
Now if we go back to the north part of Asia, we have South Koreans.
So we have North and South Korea on our maps.
A person from North Korea is North Korean, and a person from South Korea is South Korean.
It's kind of like that same structure, American, Brazilian, Korean.
And moving to the island of Japan, we have Japanese.
We're talking about a Japanese person.
He is Japanese.
Or we can also talk about the food, like sushi is Japanese food.
Okay, moving back to Southeast Asia again, we have Malaysia.
So people from Malaysia are called Malaysian.
Okay, again with this pattern, Malaysian, Korean.
And I think you say Malaysian food or you say Malay?
I've heard some people say Malay.
I've said Malaysian food generally, but Malay I think is one of the languages, and I think
it's an ethnic group as well, so you can have Malay people in Singapore, for example.
And actually we have Thai people and Singaporeans.
So we have two countries there, Thailand and Singapore.
So Thai is the adjective to describe things that come from Thailand.
It's kind of unusual.
It doesn't fit that pattern that I mentioned, but it's a very important one to remember
if you like to eat food from this country, Thai food.
Yeah, excellent food.
And Singaporean food is also pretty good, and people from Singapore are also called
Singaporean.
Here we've got a very tricky one.
We've got the country, the Philippines.
What do you call a person from the Philippines?
So the Philippines is actually spelled P-H-I, like Philippines, right?
But if somebody is from the Philippines, we say Filipino with an F.
All right, Filipino.
This is interesting, especially for people who are native Spanish speakers because the
Philippines was a Spanish colony for a very long time, and so you might hear someone refer
to himself as a Filipino.
He's a man.
Or if she is a woman, a Filipina.
So this is very similar to the Spanish structure of having a gender on the end of the word.
And well, now we're moving on to Kazakhstan and Russia.
We have people that are from Kazakhstan and Russia, and we say they are Kazakhstani.
So this is very common in that part of the world to end the adjective in an I, like Afghanistan,
Afghani, Pakistan, Pakistani, Kazakhstan, Kazakhstani.
And so these are the stans, the former USSR.
So this is a very important structure to remember, but Russia is pretty easy.
Yeah, people from Russia, you say they are Russian or you have Russian food.
I love Russian food.
All right, so we have a lot of different nationalities there.
And obviously we didn't cover all of them.
I think, I don't know, maybe 200 nationalities.
So why don't we listen to the dialogue again, and we'll be back to talk a little bit more
about this really interesting topic.
I guess it will force me to converse in Chinese more in class.
So at least I should improve a lot this semester.
Oh, we have a Moroccan, a Tagolese, a Pakistani, and two Indonesians.
So talking about nationalities, I think there's one that we didn't mention that's very, very
popular.
People from Ireland.
Okay, so people from Ireland are called Irish.
Irish.
The Irish or Irishmen.
This is a similar structure to a lot of those countries in Northern Europe like Sweden and
Finland.
So somebody from Sweden would be called Swedish.
Yes, or a Swede is the noun.
So I love to eat Swedish food like salmon.
But a similar structure applies to Finland.
In Finland, they're very famous for their Finnish bread.
Finnish.
So that's the way that you say Finnish with double N, right?
It's not like I finished my homework.
It's like F-I-N-N-I-S-H.
And now, what about people from Denmark?
They are Danish.
Danish.
And what about people from Norway?
They are Norwegian.
So that's one that does not fit the pattern.
And this is a very interesting one that also doesn't fit the pattern at all.
People from Holland.
Okay, so Holland as a country has two names.
We sometimes say Holland.
We sometimes say the Netherlands.
But a person who comes from Holland is called Dutch.
He is Dutch.
So it doesn't have to do with neither Holland, you don't say a Hollander, or Netherlands,
you don't say Netherlander.
It's Dutch.
Dutch.
And you'll also read this on like cookie tins.
You know, boxes for cookies, Dutch style cookies.
All right, so that's a very important one when it comes to food.
But we're very curious to hear about where you come from.
You should try some of the new vocabulary words that we have introduced here.
Talk about your friends or your family.
But also, tell us if we didn't include your nationality.
Enjoy your meal!
My name is Catherine and today we have a very painful lesson for you.
Today we're going to go to one of the worst places for me.
We're going to go to the dentist.
Okay, so the person in this dialogue has a pain in their mouth, in the tooth area.
So let's take a listen to this dialogue and when we come back, we'll be talking a little
bit more about it.
I have a really bad toothache.
My cheek is swollen and I can't eat anything.
This doesn't look too good.
I think we may have to pull out your wisdom tooth.
It's pressing against your molars and that's one of the reasons you're experiencing so
much pain.
When you pull my tooth, will you also have to extract the nerve and the root?
First we will take some x-rays and see what we're dealing with.
I also noticed a small cavity up front here, so you are going to need a filling.
I guess that's what I get for not flossing or brushing my teeth three times a day.
It could be that or maybe you are eating too many sweets.
In any case, I'll administer an anesthetic and you won't feel a thing.
Alright we're back and obviously we're going to take a look at a lot of vocab related to
going to the dentist and experiencing a little bit of pain.
So let's take a look at that in Language Takeaway.
First up in Language Takeaway today we have the root of the problem.
It's a toothache.
That's right, we have a really bad toothache.
Okay well ache means pain or soreness and tooth is your tooth.
So I could say, oh gosh I have a really bad toothache.
That's right, that means your tooth or your teeth hurt.
And basically you can combine it like a stomachache or headache.
Backache.
So usually when you have a toothache, you experience different symptoms, different things
happen to you.
What's one of these things Marco?
Well in this case the girl had a swollen cheek.
Her cheek is swollen.
So the cheek is the side of the face.
It's usually where it's a little bit pink and when your cheek is swollen, it looks puffy.
It looks bigger than normal.
So for example sometimes you fall and you hurt your finger and it'll get fat and it'll
get puffy as you say.
It's swollen.
So anything can be swollen really.
When you hit your toe on something hard and your toe later gets bigger, it's swollen.
So obviously her cheek is swollen and she has a toothache because apparently her wisdom
teeth or her wisdom tooth is coming out.
So wisdom teeth are special teeth.
I don't know if they actually have anything to do with wisdom which means being smart.
To be wise.
Wise.
But wisdom teeth are those four teeth in the very, very, very back of your mouth.
So these are the last teeth that come in or the last teeth that grow in your mouth.
So I think usually you're 18 or 20 when they come in.
A lot of people experience these when they're older.
Maybe that's why they call them wisdom teeth because you're older and you're wiser.
I had them when I was about 14, 13.
I was very young.
But these come in the very back.
They're the furthest away from your lips.
So when they come in, sometimes there's not enough space and so they start to press against
the other teeth in your mouth, specifically against your molars.
So molars are other teeth.
These are also in the back of your mouth.
You can tell which ones are molars I believe because they're flat on top.
They look like a little square.
Those are the ones that you use to chew your food with mostly.
They're not pointy like your front teeth.
And so molars are in the back of your mouth.
Wisdom teeth are in the very back of your mouth.
And molars can be very sore when the wisdom teeth push against them.
And so in this case, you will have to take your teeth out or the dentist will take your
teeth out.
But what's something we say when we talk about taking the whole tooth out?
Well, in this case, he's going to extract the tooth, but also he's going to extract
the nerve and the root.
So nerves are parts of our bodies.
We can't see them, but they help us feel things.
So maybe when someone hits me, the nerves in my arm, they tell my brain that it hurts.
Well, we also have nerves in our teeth and that's what we're talking about here.
But what's this other thing?
You talked about the nerve and the root.
It's very similar to a plant, for example.
You consider that your teeth are like plants and they have little roots that go into your
gums.
And this is how basically you get teeth stay alive.
They are fed basically by your body.
So root, like with a tree or a plant, is the very bottom of something.
And in this case, to extract means to take out or to take away.
So the dentist will have to extract the root and the nerve.
So that sounds pretty painful.
It's painful, but they have to do it, right?
So when the dentist has to extract the tooth, in this case, the nerve and the root and everything,
in order for you not to feel it, he gives you special drugs.
What are these drugs called?
These are called anesthetics.
So most people, when they are having major surgery, they get anesthetics so that they
can't feel anything.
Remember, we were just talking about nerves.
Well, anesthetics make it so that you can't feel things through your nerves.
So obviously you don't want to feel the pain when somebody's pulling that tooth out of
your mouth.
So you get an anesthetic and then you don't really feel anything.
You kind of feel something, but you don't really feel pain.
So anesthetic basically makes you numb.
Numb.
That's the word, numb.
So we've taken a look at a lot of vocab, molars, wisdom teeth, etc.
Hmm, this doesn't look too good.
I also noticed a small cavity up front here.
So you are going to need a filling.
It could be that.
Or maybe you are eating too many sweets.
Alright, so the topic of today's lesson is toothache but it's also basically about learning
that you will have to have your tooth taken out.
So to say this we say, to pull out a tooth.
Okay, so that's what the dentist said.
Not good news.
Okay, so to pull out means to extract.
So just remember here this is a phrase that has pull out.
Out would be the preposition here.
We wouldn't say pull off or pull at.
We'd say pull out.
Like for example, you can pull out a hair or your hair.
Okay, so we're pulling out the wisdom tooth and the dentist first wants to take some x-rays
to see what we're dealing with.
Okay, so to deal with something means to work on it or to have something to do with.
And so in this case the dentist wants to know, is this serious?
What are we dealing with here?
So he's trying to judge the situation.
So maybe what would be another scenario or another situation where you would say, I have
Well, in the case of the weather and the newsmen who report about the weather, maybe they see
that a storm is coming but they have to look at the radars and the computer screens to
see what they're dealing with.
Is it a serious storm or is it a very weak storm?
They have to evaluate.
And so we're going to see what we're dealing with.
And then the girl I think knows that she hasn't really taken good care of her teeth.
And so she says, I guess that's what I get for not flossing or brushing my teeth.
So that's what you get or that's what I get.
Where the pronoun changes, I, you, he, that's what I get for not taking care of myself.
This means it's my fault.
I deserved it.
I deserve this thing.
So I could say, Marco, that's what you get for not doing your homework.
You got a bad grade on your test.
So it's basically a way of saying, that's what you deserve.
That's the consequence for your actions.
This is something that I hate to hear from doctors and dentists because usually it's
a lie.
A dentist will say before he gives you a shot or before he takes your tooth out, you won't
feel a thing.
So he's basically saying you're not going to feel any pain.
But why do we say you won't feel a thing instead of you won't feel anything?
Just a set phrase.
It's something we say, I would remember it like this because it's more likely to be said
You won't feel a thing.
I think it basically means not even one little thing, you're not going to feel that.
So for example, I'm about to fix someone's back, you know, when you have to pull them
and make their back feel better.
I say, you won't feel a thing.
You fix their back.
So you won't feel a thing or you won't feel anything.
Both are correct, but I think it's more common to hear you won't feel a thing.
So why don't we go back?
Let's take one last look at our dialogue and we'll be back in a bit.
All right so talking about dentists and talking about wisdom teeth, you say that you still
have all four wisdom teeth.
They're all still back there.
So you didn't need to have them taken out or pulled?
No, as my dentist likes to say, I have a big mouth.
Which in English has two meanings.
A big mouth is not just a large mouth, but also it means you like to talk a lot.
So, but did you ever have braces for example when you were a kid?
Oh yes.
Oh you had braces.
I had a retainer, which is a device that you, it looks like a line across your teeth and
you put it in usually at night, but sometimes during the day and it makes some space in
But I also had braces after that.
I hated braces.
I had them for two years.
Why did you hate braces?
Because they're uncomfortable.
Well, they don't look very good, especially when you're a 13 year old girl and you want
to look cute and you have this big metal thing in your mouth.
Did you have braces?
No, no, I never had braces.
Actually it was kind of for a while, I think a lot of people thought it was cool to have
braces.
I did not grow up where you grew up.
It was not cool where I grew up.
I think, or it gets to a point where in certain parts, I guess my school was filled with kids
that had braces.
So I guess everyone just had really bad teeth.
So obviously the people that didn't have braces kind of were left aside.
So you're like, oh, I want braces.
I want to be part of the group.
I know sometimes I wish I had glasses, because everyone I know has glasses.
If you have good vision though.
Yeah, it sucks to be perfect, right?
Well, this is a really interesting topic and going to the dentist is always complicated.
Maybe some of our listeners are dentists themselves or they have some stories that they can share
with us.
Please let us know what you're thinking and share your dentist stories with us on EnglishPod.com.
We'll be waiting for you there.
We'll see you guys then.
My name is Kathryn and today we have an elementary level lesson for you.
Today we are dealing with a house that is filled with different types of bugs.
Ew, bugs.
Well, it's summertime so it's not that uncommon but not a pleasant thing to deal with.
So we're going to call an exterminator.
So you might be asking yourself what that is but before we explain, why don't you listen
to the dialogue for the first time.
Hi, did you call for an exterminator?
Yes, thank goodness you're here.
These bugs are driving us crazy.
What sort of pests are we dealing with?
We just bought this house and it is infected with just about everything.
We have termites in the wood, cockroaches all over the place and last night I saw a
huge rat out in the backyard.
Well there's nothing that we can handle.
I'll spray the floorboards and walls to get rid of the cockroaches but the termites will
be harder to get rid of.
We will have to cover the entire house and fumigate it.
Unfortunately, that means you will have to find a place to stay for the next three days.
Let's get rid of the bugs.
So now we have six key words that we've chosen out for you.
Let's take a look at those now on Language Takeaway.
Well Marco you've already told our users the very first word that would be exterminator.
What is an exterminator?
It's a person, right?
That's right, it's a person that has the job to exterminate or to delete or eliminate different
types of bugs or pests.
So an exterminator's job is to kill bugs.
And usually an exterminator comes to your home or your office to do this, right?
So maybe in your house you have a lot of different types of bugs.
Maybe you have, I don't know, spiders.
So an exterminator will come and he will try to get rid of the spiders.
So an exterminator in a general sense gets rid of pests.
And pest is our next word.
That's right, a pest.
Now we're talking about bugs and they can be considered a sort of pest.
Well pest though is a more general term, right?
So you can say pest about something like rats or mice.
So basically some type of animal that is very annoying and also causes some sort of harm
or danger.
So there was a movie if I remember correctly in the 1990s.
It was terrible and it was called The Pest.
And it's all about this person who is very annoying.
So you can even say an annoying person or a bothersome person is a pest.
You're such a pest.
Okay, so obviously our home is filled with bugs and that's what the person said that
it is infested.
Okay, so a place like an office building or like you said Marco, a home is infested if
it is filled with something.
And so infested means it's filled with something bad.
So in this case the house is infested with bugs.
They're living upstairs, downstairs, in the basement, in the kitchen, they're everywhere.
And she said that we, well actually they have termites in the wood.
All right, so termites are a special kind of bug that almost always live in wood, right?
They're little bugs that I think eat the wood.
And this is why they're so dangerous because they make the house weak because they eat
off all the wood that supports it.
So we can say the house fell down because it was infested with termites.
That's right, termites.
And also we have a very common pest or a bug.
We have cockroaches.
Oh, I hate these and they're everywhere this summer.
Cockroaches come in different sizes.
Some are big, some are small, but they're very, very strong bugs.
They can live through anything.
They're small, usually brown, but sometimes I think you can see black cockroaches.
And they love to be near food and decaying things like garbage bins.
So a very common type of pest, cockroach.
And in order to get rid of termites and cockroaches and all these types of bugs, we have to fumigate
Okay, so this is one method that the exterminator uses to kill bugs.
And like in the dialogue, when you fumigate a house, basically you fill the house with
fumes or gases that kill bugs.
So people like you and me, we can't be in the house when that happens, right?
Actually, if you see an exterminator, he will always fumigate wearing a mask so he doesn't
inhale those poisonous gas.
So it's very dangerous for people and you'll have to make sure you talk to your exterminator
to make sure that the gases he's using aren't getting into your body.
Okay, so why don't we listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back in a bit.
We have termites in the wood, cockroaches all over the place, and last night I saw a
I'll spray the floorboards and walls to get rid of the cockroaches, but the termites will
All right, so now we've chosen three key phrases for you on Fluency Builder.
Well, this first phrase comes from the very beginning of today's dialogue.
The second person in the dialogue says, these bugs are driving us crazy.
So, to drive someone crazy.
Okay, so if you're driving someone crazy, it means that you're making them crazy.
All right, so it could be you're making them angry or you're making them frustrated, but
it has nothing to do with cars, right?
Yeah, yeah, there's no driving involved.
So driving here means making.
You're making me crazy.
You're really making me frustrated.
So in this case, the animals, the bugs were driving them crazy.
They were so annoying that they were just, they were very irritated.
So I could do something, Marco, that will drive you crazy.
I could tap, tap, tap, tap, tap, tap, tap.
That's driving me crazy.
Doesn't it annoy you?
So I'll stop.
So it doesn't drive you crazy anymore.
Okay, so now obviously bugs are driving them crazy and she went on to explain that it's
because the house is infested with just about everything.
Well, this is a great phrase because we can say it in a lot of different contexts.
In this context, it means there is not everything, every single bug in the house, but just about
That means almost every bug you can think of is in this house.
So it's kind of a way of exaggerating also because obviously, well, they have cockroaches,
they have termites, but they're saying we have a lot of different types of bugs.
We have just about everything that you can imagine.
You could even say, this restaurant has just about every Chinese dish you could ever think
It doesn't have every single one, but it has a lot.
Okay, so that's the way that you use just about everything.
And for our final phrase, we use it a little bit earlier on.
Let's explain it a little bit.
When we're talking about bugs, we want to get rid of bugs.
This is why we call the exterminator, to get rid of the cockroaches.
You might hear this phrase a lot when you're watching movies about gangsters or mobsters
like The Sopranos, the TV show, get rid of him.
So this is a phrase that means, in this case, to kill something or to kill someone, to get
rid of it, to get rid of him.
To not have it anymore.
So rid means to get away or to throw away.
But in this case, you're not just throwing it away, you're killing these bugs.
So we want to get rid of the bugs.
Now obviously, as you said, we can also throw away, for example, these shoes are too old.
I'm going to get rid of them.
Or, hey Marco, this milk smells funny.
Can you get rid of it?
So that's the way that you would use that phrase, to get rid of something.
So why don't we listen to our dialogue for the very last time and we're back to talk
We have termites in the wood, cockroaches all over the place.
And last night I saw a huge rat out in the backyard.
Well there's nothing that we can't handle.
Just get rid of the bugs.
So bugs.
Everyone loves bugs, right?
I am actually okay with termites or for example cockroaches.
They're a little bit weird, but I actually really dislike spiders.
So you're okay with cockroaches, but spiders make you nervous.
Spiders are...
Well, the thing is, spiders can actually hurt you.
And cockroaches generally cannot.
They're gross.
They're dirty.
But spiders, there are very, very many kinds of dangerous spiders out there that are poisonous.
So for example, termites, nothing's going to happen.
Or cockroaches, they're nasty.
Not unless your house is weakened by hundreds of millions of termites.
But for example, I think other people have snakes sometimes as pests because they live
in areas that have a lot of snakes or mice because snakes are attracted by mice.
So some people keep cats for that reason.
They want the cats, especially on farms, the cats to catch the mice or to scare the snakes
away.
But I don't really have a problem with snakes or spiders, but I do have a problem with scorpions.
Oh, scorpions.
If you live close to a desert or a very dry area, scorpions, they really scare me.
I've seen on, I think, Discovery Channel that in Australia, they're very common.
And so not only scorpions, but also spiders.
So whenever you put your shoes on, you have to check that there's nothing in it.
Also, shower drains.
You know where the water goes down the hole in the shower?
Oftentimes you get things like scorpions in the desert areas that come out of the drain.
That looks like something from a horror movie or something.
All of a sudden, you're in the shower and there's pests coming out of the drain.
That's nasty.
Terrifying.
So a lot of different types of kind of scary bugs and pests.
But we would like to know if you've ever had an infestation in your home or what pests
are you afraid of?
So let us know, our website is EnglishPod.com.
My name is Kathryn and today we have a very, very useful intermediate level lesson for
you all about the weather.
So obviously we have seen the news and sometimes on the news we have the weather report.
So today we're going to learn all about that weather report in English.
So let's check out today's dialogue and we'll be back in a moment to talk about the words
and phrases that those weather forecasters used.
And those are today's top stories.
Now let's go to John for the weather.
John, what does the forecast look like for our weekend travelers?
I'm afraid we're in for a rough weekend, Mary.
There's a storm system moving through the East Coast.
It will be drizzling all day today and there's a 60% chance of thunderstorms this evening.
It will be warm and humid all weekend.
In the Midwest, expect strong winds and a low of around 40 degrees.
That's pretty chilly for the summer.
Will it rain on Saturday?
Unfortunately, yes.
It will be clear early Saturday morning, but there is a high chance of showers and thunderstorms
later in the day.
There is a severe thunderstorm warning for some parts of the Southeast.
Folks in those areas might see some hail and flooding, especially in areas that have been
experiencing record high rainfalls.
That certainly sounds like a dreary Saturday.
It gets better on Sunday, though.
The storm systems move east and the skies will clear up at night.
It will still be rather cool with highs in the low 50s.
The West Coast will be experiencing some unusually chilly weather, but at least the sun will
come out.
I advise weekend travelers to be careful, especially while driving.
Back to you, Mary.
Thanks, John.
And there you have it.
Looks like it's a weekend to stay at home.
So apparently, they're not going to have great weather this weekend and they actually started
with an interesting word.
And actually, the commentator started with asking the weatherman, John, what does the
forecast look like for our weekend?
Okay, so the word here, forecast, is very, very important because it describes this part
of the newscast.
A forecast is basically a prediction or a description of the future weather situation.
So we're talking about the weather forecast.
Now it's very interesting because we can also use that in business, for example, in budgets.
You can say, what is the financial forecast of the company?
All right, so you can't know what will happen, but you can predict it and that's what a forecast
So we're talking about the weather forecast and the weatherman said that, well, there
are some storms coming and it will be drizzling all day.
Okay, so to drizzle is a verb and it's like the verb to rain, except it's less by degree.
So it's very light rain.
Yeah, it's kind of like if I spray you with water from a spray can or something, it's
like drizzle.
It's just little dots of water.
It's not like you're getting wet.
You don't really have the normal heavy raindrops.
You just have a little bit of water coming down.
But it's annoying because do you bring your umbrella?
Do you leave your umbrella?
So drizzling is a kind of rain that's very, very light.
All right, so it's going to drizzle all day and the weatherman also said that we might
have some thunderstorms.
Okay, so thunderstorms are very different.
Thunderstorms are a kind of storm where there is thunder.
So thunder is the loud noises when there's lightning.
Lightning, okay.
So lightning is like the flash that you get from the sky and thunder is the hard sound
that comes after.
The boom.
Yeah, so remember light, lightning.
Light is the light that comes down from the sky, lightning.
And thunderstorms are just those loud noises that the lightning makes.
So usually with thunderstorms, we have very heavy rain.
And that's why it's different from drizzling, which is very light.
Now we're talking about water.
We have drizzle, we have thunderstorm.
Now what about a shower?
Because the weatherman said there is a high chance of showers.
Well, yes, there's a high chance of showers.
I take showers every day, thank you very much.
But that's not the kind of shower we're talking about here, is it?
Think about it though.
It's similar.
A shower when you wash yourself is water coming down on top of you.
Well, in this case, it's a rain shower.
So it's rain that's happening.
Okay, so it's rain water that's coming down, very similar to the shower that you take in
the morning.
The difference though is that a shower is a noun and to rain is a verb.
So it will rain tomorrow or we expect showers tomorrow.
Both mean the same thing.
And well, talking about showers and thunderstorms, there's also another type of water that falls
from the sky.
This is called hail.
And hail is difficult to describe because it's like ice, but it's not really.
It's just usually hard, almost like marbles, like hard balls of rain that come down.
So it's not snow.
It hurts when it hits you.
Sometimes it's very big, sometimes it's very small, but it's heavy, hard things that come
out of the clouds.
So just think about it.
It's very, very similar to ice.
It's the small pieces of ice coming down from the sky.
So that's hail.
Obviously, very different from snow because as we said, it's hard.
Snow is very soft.
And well, with this type of weather going on in the weekend, the commentator said, wow,
that certainly sounds like a dreary Saturday.
Dreary is a great word to describe it.
So as you can tell, it's going to rain.
Dreary is not a good thing.
It's not a happy thing.
So something is dreary when it's not very exciting.
It looks like it'll be dull or sad or boring or dark.
Now can you describe a person like this as well?
He's a very dreary person.
He's never optimistic.
He's always down and yeah, kind of quiet and sad and down.
Boring.
So that's what it means.
Something that's boring, not very exciting or very calm.
But also dark.
There's a dark element to it because something is dreary.
You know, there's no sunshine.
There's no light.
There's no optimism.
So you can say it's a dreary day.
Very dreary day today.
No light, no sunshine.
So we've taken a look at a lot of vocab there.
Why don't we review what we've just learned and listen to the dialogue again.
The storm systems move East and the skies will clear up at night.
So now, we're going to talk a little bit about some phrases that we've chosen for you on
So when we're talking about forecasts, remember that we're talking about things that aren't
certain.
We have to explain that there is a possibility of rain or a possibility of sunshine.
And usually, in the weather report, they will use percentages to describe how likely something
is to happen.
The weatherman said there is a 60% chance of thunderstorms.
So 60% is not very likely, but it's also not unlikely.
It means that it might happen that it rains.
So as you said, it's a way to measure what the probabilities are.
Because imagine if the weatherman says it might rain tomorrow, you're like, well, maybe
it really will, or maybe it's very unlikely that it won't, or we don't really know.
So for example, if the weatherman says there's a 95% chance of rain tomorrow, do you bring
your umbrella?
What if he says there's a 5% chance of rain tomorrow?
So you have to think about the probability.
60%, it's maybe half and half.
But 95%, it's very likely to happen.
And he also mentioned there's a high chance of thunderstorms, or maybe you can say there's
a low chance of hail.
So he's basically saying, he or she is basically saying, you know, it's possible that this
will happen, or it's not likely this will happen.
They're trying to help you out.
They can't say this will happen, because they don't know.
So the key word for probability here, the key word is chance.
There is a good chance that it will rain.
So chance is probability.
So for example, what's the chance it will rain tomorrow?
Well, there's a high chance.
And now when we talk about the degrees, or how warm or cold it is, so we express it in
Fahrenheit in some countries, or in other countries in centigrade.
Here we talk about 40 degrees Fahrenheit.
But the weatherman also says highs and lows.
There's a low of around 40 degrees.
What does he mean, a low?
This is a really important part of the forecast, because you need to know, will you have to
bring a coat tomorrow?
Is it going to be hot or cold?
And so you think about a day, usually during the day at noon, or 1 o'clock in the afternoon,
it's the hottest.
But at night, it's the coldest.
And so the low refers to the lowest temperature, and the high refers to the highest temperature.
So for example, in the fall, maybe the highs are 60 degrees, but the lows are 40.
So you should bring a coat.
It means at night, it'll be 40, and during the day, it'll be 60.
So we're talking about the highs are the highest temperatures, or the highest number that we'll
get, and the lows is the lowest.
So the weatherman will commonly say, tomorrow we'll experience a high of 32 degrees and
a low of 25.
So it's very easy to understand that the temperature during the day will be between these two numbers.
And for our last phrase, the weatherman also said that there is a severe thunderstorm warning
for some parts of the Southeast.
So, Marco, this is a really key phrase, because it's telling people about potential danger.
You know, a thunderstorm can be very dangerous, so you want to stay inside.
So a severe thunderstorm warning, severe means very, very serious, is something you should
pay attention to.
But now, the interesting thing is that we can change the noun, in this case, thunderstorm,
and we can talk about, for example, a severe tornado warning.
So if there's a severe tornado warning, then I really have to pay attention to the weather
and be careful not to go outside.
Or even a severe flood warning.
You need to know that the streets might become flooded and prepare.
So they're saying that there's a very high probability that this might happen, so they're
warning you to take precaution.
So pay attention to that last one.
And we're going to listen to today's dialogue one more time.
We'll be back in a moment to talk a little bit more about the weather.
It will be drizzling all day today, and there's a 60% chance of thunderstorms this evening.
It will still be rather cool, with highs in the low 50s.
So talking about the weather, it always seems like the weatherman is always wrong.
It's like the opposite of what should happen.
But you can't blame them because all they have is a computer and some sensors and they
have to guess about the weather and help people figure out what to do.
Have you ever experienced anything severe like a hard thunderstorm or maybe a tornado
or something like this?
I have, actually, because I'm from Chicago.
And in America, the middle of the country is called the tornado belt.
That means it's a piece of land where tornadoes are very common.
And so in the fall and in the spring, we often have tornadoes.
And I've been in a couple of tornadoes myself.
Have you seen them?
Is it amazing to see?
They're very scary.
You're always running inside and locking yourself in the basement.
It's very important to protect yourself in a tornado because it's very dangerous around
the area of the tornado because the wind is so strong that trucks and cars and telephone
poles and big, big heavy objects can fly through the air and hurt people.
And that's how most of the damage happens.
Okay, so this is interesting because a tornado is also considered a natural disaster.
But it's a weather phenomenon, whereas earthquakes are a natural disaster, but it's not part
of the weather.
No, yeah, you're right.
It's not something that it sweeps in and it leaves.
Like a flood, for example, all of the rain will come down and it will create a flood.
An earthquake is a natural disaster that's not weather related.
Okay, interesting thing.
Maybe some of our listeners that live in a very cold area have experienced a heavy snowstorm.
Like a blizzard.
Or maybe people in a tropical area have experienced a hurricane.
So let us know if you've ever been in one of these weather related phenomenons.
And also if you have any comments or questions, we're always at EnglishPod.com.
We hope to see you guys there.
My name is Catherine and today we have an intermediate level lesson about going to the
bank.
Today we're going to go to the bank and we need to do something there.
We're not going to put money in the bank actually.
We're going to make a transfer.
Okay, so you'll learn all about this in a minute.
Let's take a listen to the dialogue first.
Good morning.
Welcome to Bank of the USA.
How may I help you today?
Hi, I need to transfer some money to another account.
It's urgent.
Have you made a wire transfer at our bank before?
No, I've never made a transfer before.
It's all right.
I will take you through the procedure.
Are you transferring funds to a company or an individual account?
A company account.
I need to pay a bill.
I'll need the name of the company and their bank routing number as well as their bank's
address and phone number.
I have all the information in this folder.
Well, you've come prepared.
I have all the necessary materials so we can go ahead and make the transfer right now.
It's a simple transaction and we can process it today.
Oh, that's such a relief.
I didn't want the payment to be overdue.
It's my pleasure.
So interesting dialogue, very common situation.
We need to transfer money to another account.
So we have some very interesting vocab words right there.
Why don't we take a look at those on Language Takeaway.
So Marco, the first word is one that you've already said a couple of times in today's
It is to transfer.
We need to transfer money.
So to transfer, what does this verb mean?
So to transfer means to move from one place to another.
In the case of money, you're moving money from one bank to another bank or from one
account to another account.
So just think of transferring as moving.
But the bank teller also mentioned something about a wire transfer.
So that's basically the same thing, right?
So when you're talking about money, you don't actually take a bag of money and you don't
walk to another bank to put it in the account.
A wire transfer means that the transfer is electronic.
One bank tells another bank that you're going to exchange this money.
So it's going to move from one person to another person or from one company to another company.
But it's never actually the money itself.
It's always just the number of funds in the account.
Okay, so a wire transfer, to transfer money electronically from one account to another.
And talking about this word account, we're talking about a bank account.
Well, this is really important even if you're not making a wire transfer or if you're not
working at a bank.
This is something that most people have for their personal use.
So an account is a space for money in a bank that's kind of registered to one person or
one company.
And there are many, many different kinds of accounts.
Many of you probably have a savings account.
This is where you keep your money to save for the future.
Or many companies or people have a checking account or a default account where basically
you put money in, but you're also taking money out and paying for bills and paying to go
to the movies, etc.
Yeah, so these different accounts have different rules.
They have rules about how much money you can keep in them or how much money you need to
open them.
So the basic word here is account.
And just remember that companies and people can all have accounts at a bank.
Okay, so when talking about an account, we're talking about transferring money to another
account.
We don't say we want to transfer money.
We say we want to transfer funds.
Funds.
So funds, we usually say in the plural, funds, with an S. This means money.
So we're talking about transferring funds from one company to another or I could say
I need to deposit funds in my account.
Now an interesting word because funds with an S at the end, that's a plural noun as you
said, but if we use it in the singular, it could also be a verb, to fund.
And that means to pay for something or someone.
So my grandfather funded my college education.
He paid money for my college education.
So both words, either the verb or the noun, have to do with money.
And when we're talking about transferring money, we're talking about a type of transaction,
Where a bank transfer or a wire transfer is a type of transaction.
So a transaction is a noun and it's something that you do at a bank, for example, usually
involving the exchange of money.
So a wire transfer is a kind of transaction, but also depositing or putting money into
my savings account is also a kind of transaction.
So a transaction is kind of like a business move or a business deal involving money.
For example, a transaction can also be buying a car.
So the transaction is I give my money to Marco, the car salesperson, and the transaction is
exchanging that money for the car.
And lastly, since we needed to pay a bill, we were worried that the bill will be overdue
and that's why we really needed to make this wire transfer.
So to be overdue is to be late.
So think about due.
This is the time when something has to be done by.
So for example, if the bill for the electricity is due on Wednesday, but I pay it on Thursday,
it's overdue.
So it not only has to do with money, it could also be something that is late.
For example, if I visit my grandma after not going there for three months, you would say
this visit is long overdue.
That means Marco should have visited his grandmother earlier, but he didn't.
So a lot of great vocab there all involving banks and different types of words you may
find when transferring funds.
So why don't we listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back in a bit with Fluency Builder.
I'm here to transfer some money to another account.
I'll need the name of the company and their bank routing number, as well as their bank's
So we have three key phrases for you.
Let's take a look at those now on Fluency Builder.
So our first phrase comes from something that the person at the bank told the client.
That person said, it's all right.
So let's look at this word procedure.
Procedure can be many different things, but what is it in this case?
It's basically the steps or the process of taking money from the account and transferring
it to another one.
That's the procedure.
So we have to do all the steps, you have to fill out the paperwork, you have to sign here
and all these things.
So we're talking about a wire transfer.
So there is a procedure for doing a wire transfer.
That means like you say, there are steps that we have to go through to complete this action.
But we can also have a medical procedure.
So a heart surgery has its own procedure, but that's very different from a wire transfer
procedure.
But it's still, it has different steps and different things that you must do in order
to operate.
But when we have a bank teller who will take us through the procedure, this means that
he or she will help us understand the steps we need to complete.
So this, we could also use this in another bank scenario if maybe my little brother wants
to open a bank account.
So I'm going to take him through the procedure of what he needs.
He needs to maybe get a copy of his ID.
He needs to have $20, etc.
Take him through the procedure.
So you're going to help him.
So this is something we say about why the person is so anxious to transfer this money.
The person says, I have a company account.
So this is why the money is going to be transferred from one place to another to pay the bill.
So this is something we say not just about, you know, company things or business things.
We say about our things at home, like the electricity bill.
And actually this is more and more common.
We pay our bills using our electronic banking services.
So for example, maybe he needs to pay the electricity bill or the telephone bill and
this is why we're transferring money.
So to pay a bill is to cancel the bill.
So I could say, it's time to pay the bills.
It's the end of the month.
Or, oh shoot, I forgot to pay the bills again.
They're going to turn my electricity off.
And now an interesting phrase here, very specific to making transfers.
When we talk about bank routing number, a bank routing number.
Well this is pretty simple actually.
If you're going to transfer money, you need to be able to tell the bank where the money
will go.
So you can't just say Mr. Smith.
You have to have a number for the account and each number is unique.
It's special and it's usually very, very long.
And actually it also has to do with what bank it is because obviously you can't just say,
oh, Bank of USA because, you know, maybe there are two banks with the same name or maybe
there's one Bank of USA in the United States and there's another one in, I don't know,
in Europe.
So you have to have a certain number or letter combination in the bank routing number.
And so the kind of account, is it savings or is it a business account and so on and
so forth so that you know exactly where the money will go because you don't want to give
the money to the wrong person.
So a lot of great things on this lesson.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue for one last time.
So Marco, this is really, really important stuff.
Even if you're not talking about the business context, but you're trying to make transactions
for your personal life.
Just imagine maybe you're abroad, you're in the United States and maybe your parents need
to send you money.
So maybe you need to go to the bank and receive those funds.
So now you have the language and the vocab necessary to more or less talk about a bank
transfer.
You can say, I was wired money from Spain, for example.
And one of the most famous places to do this that you'll find all over the United States
is Western Union.
You can go to them and say, I need to transfer money or I need to transfer funds.
And so they will send the money from one Western Union to another Western Union.
And then the person at home or wherever will pick up your money.
And so they will wire the money from one place to another.
And I think this is how it started.
The wire transferring was, I don't think it was originally with banks.
I think it was something, some sort of service similar to Western Union or maybe Western
Union started it.
You mean it was like telegraphs?
Yeah, something like this.
But I don't know if it was from bank to bank.
It's an interesting story though.
We'll have to look it up and let you know.
I'm not sure of the story either.
But if you're out there and you need to wire some money now you know how to do it.
Well, not how to do it, but you have to talk about it.
We hope you have luck with this.
And if you have any questions, you know where to find us, EnglishPod.com.
Electric vientarelli Carvis only from El Cdito cheap on MailTV and Piece mascara
My name is Catherine and today we have a lesson that comes actually from a user request.
We had a user request who asked us if we can do something about a purchasing manager, maybe
what his job does or what it is to be a purchasing manager.
So you'll find out all about that today in this lesson.
It's an upper intermediate about being a purchasing manager and about vendors.
So let's check out today's dialogue.
Good morning, Angela.
How have you been lately?
Morning Michael.
I've been very busy lately.
One of our other vendors is going out of business and I've been searching for a suitable replacement.
Well rest assured that you can count on us to be here for the long run.
Please sit down.
Coffee?
No thanks.
I've been trying to cut down on the caffeine.
I could never do that.
I'd be a zombie if I didn't have my morning coffee fix.
Let's get down to business then.
I've come to talk with you about ordering the 8 megapixel cameras for our new MiPhone.
The demand for phone cameras is growing and Pear has been falling behind in the market.
I'm glad to hear that Pear has finally jumped on the bandwagon.
Right now our contract is for the 5 megapixel cameras.
Is Pear still interested in having those?
We're changing all the cameras to 8 megapixels.
We were hoping that by making your company our sole supplier for cameras, we could negotiate
a better deal.
Surely.
Let's get started by drafting a new contract.
So a very interesting job to be a purchasing manager.
A lot of responsibility on top of him.
And we actually saw some really interesting phrases and words that are related to business,
to negotiating, contracts, etc.
So let's take a look at some of those now on Language Takeaway.
The first word we have is vendor.
This is a noun.
It means it's a job.
It's the name of a person's job.
So he is a vendor.
And a vendor, what does a vendor do?
Well, a vendor sells things.
So the verb here is to vend, like a vending machine is that machine that you can buy sodas
So a vendor is someone who sells things to someone else.
Okay so I can say he is a door vendor.
He sells doors?
Or let me contact my vendor about the price list for these TVs.
So we're talking about a vendor who is going out of business.
And because he's going out of business, this manager is actually looking for a suitable
replacement.
So this is an interesting phrase because these two words normally go together.
We say let's find a replacement, okay that's good, but really we want a suitable replacement.
And so first of all, the word suitable means like appropriate or good.
But what about replacement?
A replacement is something that takes the place of.
It replaces something else.
So for example, we have our vendor who went out of business.
So what we are looking now for is another vendor, but not just any vendor, a suitable
vendor, one that has the things that we need or the prices that we need.
And in order to replace the one that went out of business.
Right, so we can say this about other things, not just people.
For example, if I break my iPhone, my cell phone, very expensive phone, I'm upset about
But when I buy a new one, I don't want a cheap one.
I want a suitable replacement, one that's about the same as the old one.
So maybe you don't get the exact same one, but you get one that's very similar.
So now they're going to talk a little bit about the contract, but they kind of do a
little bit of small talk and they're talking about coffee and he says, well, you know,
I know how that feels.
This is a person who loves to drink caffeine to wake up.
And so we talk about a fix as being something that you need.
Okay, my coffee fix means the coffee that I drink in the morning to survive.
Okay, so we know the verb to fix is to make something good again, to repair.
But in this case, we're taking fix as a noun and we're saying that it's something that
you need, like you said, for example, maybe in the morning you need your English fix and
so you'd listen to EnglishPod.
You need it so much, it's like a drug.
And moving on, they started to talk a little bit more about the details of the business
and he mentioned that they want to make this company their sole supplier for cameras.
Okay, so sole means only.
But this word supplier is very interesting because it's very similar to vendor.
So it's basically someone, a company maybe, or a person that supplies you with what you
All right, so to supply is to provide for.
So for example, if I work at a clothing store and I sell lots of nice clothing, I need a
supplier to bring me the clothes that I sell.
Otherwise, where am I going to get them from?
I don't have a factory.
For example, IBM is one of the biggest computer suppliers or manufacturers in the world.
And for the last part of the dialogue, they said, well, I think we can reach an agreement.
They're going to draft a contract.
All right, so this is interesting because we don't use the verb to write a contract.
Now you would think, well, of course you write it, but there's a special verb that we use
with the word contract.
So just remember this phrase together, to draft a contract or my company will draft
a contract and send it to you.
This means to prepare a contract in order for someone to sign it.
So it's basically the same as write, but it's usually used more with contracts to draft
a contract.
Or maybe you can say to draft up a business plan.
So to draft a plan, to draft a contract.
This is basically to write something that has many different points, many different
strategies.
So five key words for you there.
And now let's move on to some key phrases on Fluency Builder.
Okay, so there are a lot of really, really juicy phrases in today's lesson.
The first one is rest assured.
So we heard this from Michael at the beginning of the dialogue.
He said, rest assured that you can count on us.
Rest assured.
So this is a phrase that you use to try to give confidence to someone, telling them you
can trust me, rest assured that I'll be there.
So let's hear another example of it.
Rest assured, Marco, I will be there to support you.
Okay, so I know that you will be there or I can trust that you'll be there.
So to rest assure.
Now the second part of it is in that same sentence, well, rest assure that you can count
on us.
Okay, so what does it mean to count on us, to count on me?
So the verb to count has a couple of different meanings and most of us are familiar with
the other one, to count numbers, one, two, three, four, five.
But here to count on someone, remember that preposition on, means to expect someone to
do something, to depend on someone.
So if you count on someone, means that you depend on them, you rely on them, you can
trust them.
So for example, in the sentence that I just told Marco, rest assured, I will be there.
You can count on me.
That means you can depend on me, you can expect me to be there.
I will not let you down.
In that same sentence, we have another phrasal verb, rest assured that you can count on
us to be here for the long run.
The long run.
So we're not actually running here.
The long run is a phrase that means for a long time.
So for example, if I'm in an interview and someone asks me, well, we're really interested
in your resume and we really like you.
We want to know, are you available in the long run, in the long term?
So if you say, yes, I am here for the long run, it means that you are here for a long
And let's move on to our next phrase.
And they're actually, you know, they stopped with a small talk and now they want to get
down to business.
You hear this phrase all the time because you don't just walk into a meeting and start
talking about business stuff.
You know, you start with the nice things first.
How is your wife?
How was that game of golf?
So you're talking about nice small talk, like you just said, Marco, but when you want to
start talking about numbers or products, things like that, that is called business.
So when you want to start that, you say, let's get down to business.
So it's a phrase to say, okay, now let's start talking about what we came here to do.
Start talking about business.
And the last phrase that we have for you, it's a very interesting phrase.
When they were talking about one of the brands of phones, they're saying, I'm glad to hear
that Pear has finally jumped on the bandwagon.
Now, Marco, I wish I could tell you, I knew where this phrase came from, but I don't.
Let's just talk about the word bandwagon first.
I think bandwagon means something that everyone is doing.
So I think if everyone likes the color purple and all of a sudden you like the color purple,
then that means you just jumped on the bandwagon.
I jumped on the bandwagon.
So you think of a wagon as like, before they had cars, they had wagons.
They're wooden and they have wheels and they're pulled by a horse.
And so everyone is on there and they're all going somewhere.
And I wasn't on it, but I jumped on the back.
That means I joined everyone.
I started to do what they're doing.
So I guess you agree with them or you're going towards in the same direction that everyone
else is going.
Look at Marco.
He just bought an iPhone.
Now he's jumped on the bandwagon.
So everyone is going in the same direction.
Everyone is doing the same thing.
Everyone likes the same thing.
So to jump on the bandwagon, you can use it in the business sense.
For example, if somebody is not agreeing with you or somebody doesn't want to support your
project, you can say, I would really appreciate it if you jumped on the bandwagon and supported
us on this.
So it's not always a bad thing, but remember that the verb that is synonymous with this
is to conform.
To do what everyone else is doing.
So a lot of interesting things here.
Let's listen to our dialogue one last time.
No, thanks.
I've come to talk with you about ordering the eight megapixel cameras for our new Mi
phone.
Right now our contract is for the five megapixel cameras.
We're changing all the cameras to eight megapixels.
So talking about purchasing, it's actually a very interesting position.
I think many, or almost all companies, big companies have this position where not only
do they have to, maybe if they're in retailing, they have to purchase the goods that they
will sell, but also in offices.
For example, who buys the paper, the printers, the copiers, everything for the office?
This is a very important position, as you say, because this person can save a company
a lot of money if the person knows the right vendors.
If the only vendors you know are selling things at very high prices, then that's not very
good for you or for your business.
But if you know all the inside secrets, you know all the good vendors, then maybe you're
going to be able to save a lot of money.
I think this position is also a lot broader than just this.
Maybe someone can also help us out on the website, EnglishPod.com.
You can explain.
Maybe if you're a purchasing manager, you can tell us what your job entails.
Or if you know a purchasing manager, what does that person do?
We're very curious to know, and we hope that you'll be able to use some of these new words
and phrases.
If you want to practice, check us out, EnglishPod.com.
Robert Fukunaga, EnglishPod number two, EnglishPod number two.
My name is Catherine and today we have an upper intermediate level lesson about something
very technical.
We're talking about marketing strategies here today.
Today we have an upper intermediate lesson at the office.
That is the category of this lesson and we're basically talking about marketing, a marketing
plan and a lot of technical words around this part of business.
All right, so let's take a listen to today's dialogue and we'll be back in just a moment
to talk about what's going on.
Okay, everyone, let's begin.
I called you here today to evaluate our marketing strategy during this recession.
I wanted to reemphasize our corporate mission of aiming to give our customers the best coffee
and service in a clean and welcoming atmosphere.
Several other shops have been reducing their prices for their coffees and they are drawing
in more customers.
Why aren't we doing the same thing?
I know that recent sales have been slow, but we are not going to reduce our prices to the
level of our competitors.
We offer a superior product and our focus is on long-term growth rather than short-term
sales.
If we lower our prices, we run the risk of devaluing our product.
Customers don't care about coffee anymore.
They only care about price.
I disagree.
Highly discerning customers know that our coffee is far better than the coffee you buy
at the other places.
Our coffee beans are artisan roasted and we use state-of-the-art equipment to brew our
coffees.
When you compare the coffees side by side, our coffee wins the taste test every time.
We have never sought to appeal to the mass market with cheap coffee drinks and we will
not do so now.
We've certainly achieved top-of-mind awareness when it comes to the best tasting brews and
it's important to distinguish ourselves from the competitors.
I think the main question is, how can we show our appreciation to our customers?
That's the main question I would like to discuss today.
Money is tight for everyone these days.
So even our most loyal customers may be reconsidering the money they pay for their morning coffee.
Since the security of our coffee beans is one of our core competencies, why don't we
sell the beans for people to brew coffee at home?
That could definitely be a way we could expand our company, but would we be undermining the
essence of the company that way?
Let's brainstorm some more ideas and do some research.
The customer always comes first and what the customer wants, the customer gets.
Maybe it's time we started selling coffee beans.
So a very interesting dialogue.
I think this is something very common that would go on in a meeting room when the marketing
department is talking about prices and how do we increase sales, etc.
So I think we had a lot of difficult words or maybe words that we didn't really understand
So let's take a look at some of those in Language Takeaway.
So the first word on the top of our list today is recession.
Anyone looking at the news this year or last year probably knows what this word means,
but let's talk about it anyway.
What is a recession?
So someone was talking about the recession and basically it is a noun.
And it means that people don't have enough money like before and so consequently services
are decreased, people aren't buying as much, so there is a lack of commerce going on in
a country, a region, or a city, etc.
So basically in economics you have these different cycles.
It's not like the economy is always the same.
And so sometimes when there's not enough money we call it a recession and we can say, hey,
I don't have much money to spend right now, we are in a recession.
So that's a very common way to use the term.
So as you said, it's an economic term and many consequences because of this lack of
It's just, as you said, a cycle.
And so apart from a recession, that's why they are brainstorming to see how they can
increase sales despite the recession.
They also talked about their customers and that their customers are highly discerning.
Alright so this word discerning comes from the verb to discern.
And it's a really important one because it means to be able to tell the difference, to
understand the difference between two different things.
Okay so let's say we have two cups of soda.
I'm very good at tasting things so I can discern the difference.
I can discern the difference between these two.
I can say one is Coca-Cola and one is Pepsi.
Okay so to discern is to be able to tell the difference or to notice the difference between
many things.
And so obviously you are a discerning person.
Or you have discerning taste.
This means that you're very good at telling when something is high quality and when it's
not high quality.
And well talking about discerning customers who know what they want.
And so they talked about their coffee beans and it's one of their core competencies.
Okay so this is something you might actually hear in education as well as in business.
Something is your competency if you are able to do it.
Alright so I am able to write Chinese characters.
It's one of my core competencies.
Okay so that's something that I'm able to do so I consider it one of these central or
important abilities.
But you always talk about competencies within the context of some area.
So my language skills or in this case at a company we're talking about making a coffee.
One of the company's core competencies is making their coffee beans.
That's something they're good at.
That's right and core when we talk about core we talk about the center.
We talk about one of the most important things.
Okay and well for the last word that we've prepared to you on Language Takeaway we talked
about them worrying that you know selling the coffee beans might undermine the essence
of the company.
To undermine.
Okay this is a really important verb and you'll hear this a lot actually in TV shows and especially
in dramas.
Say he's undermining my authority or he's undermining my power.
This means that someone is challenging it or someone is kind of taking it away from
So to undermine is to as you said challenge or try to take something from you very sneaky
in a sneaky way sometimes.
So for example if I'm the president of a country and someone is trying to take that away from
me someone is trying to be the president and trying to take down my government.
He is trying to undermine my power.
So four key words there on Language Takeaway.
Now we're going to move on to Fluency Builder where we prepared a lot of nice and very good
All right so on Fluency Builder why don't we start up from the beginning of the dialogue
when they were talking about the prices of the coffee and that other shops have reduced
their prices and so they're drawing in more customers.
All right so the key here is to draw in.
Most people will know the word to draw you know to make a design on a page.
But to draw in has a very special meaning.
It means to attract.
Okay so you want to attract more customers.
You want to bring them into the shop.
So you're trying to draw them in.
So Marco what's a good example of something that a company will do to try and draw in
customers.
For example many of you maybe have seen in fast food restaurants when they have a promotion
like you buy one hamburger and you get another one for free.
So that's maybe one of the strategies that they're trying to do to draw in customers
and maybe not make money but give people the opportunity to taste their good food.
All right so the next phrase we've got here is a little bit different.
It's talking about the kind of product that they have.
They're talking about their coffee beans and they say that they're roasted and that they
use state of the art equipment to brew the coffee.
So this phrase state of the art.
Okay if something is state of the art, okay, we're usually talking about a machine and
we're saying that it's the latest in technology.
It's very very new.
It's highly advanced.
It's a very technologically advanced machine.
So for example the new iPhone 4 is a state of the art cell phone.
That means it's the very highest that technology has to offer.
And obviously something that is state of the art is not state of the art forever because
technology changes and so maybe next year there will be a new state of the art telephone.
So if you notice the spelling as well we have little hyphens between each word.
State of the art because we take it as a chunk all together, right?
And following that we have another phrase that is used to talk about products.
They say when you compare the coffees we have side by side, our coffee wins against our
competitors.
So side by side.
In this case the phrase there is side by side and they're talking about comparing coffees
side by side.
So I think this is pretty literal.
It's basically saying you put two coffee mugs or coffee cups together side by side and you
have people taste and then you see which one they prefer.
So you can say this when you're making comparisons.
When I look at them side by side I think I like the pink one more than the red one.
So you are comparing, you are literally putting them next to each other to make a choice of
which one is your preference.
Okay now moving on we have a very interesting phrase when they were talking about the company
and they've achieved top of mind awareness when it comes to best tasting brews.
So this phrase top of mind awareness very closely related to marketing.
Well let's look at the individual words.
We have top which is on top not on bottom, mind which is your head or your thinking and
awareness which is the way that you see things.
And so let's take a guess here and say that when I think of a category of product like
coffee for example, what is the first thing that comes into my mind?
So it's actually a very cool game that you can sometimes play with friends.
Basically just say okay when you think of coffee what is the first brand that comes
into your mind?
Starbucks.
So that for example shows that Starbucks has put in you a certain top of mind awareness.
You associate coffee with Starbucks immediately.
You don't say Costa Coffee, you don't say Coffee Bean or any other brand.
Yeah, no definitely this is a way for you to really test what companies, what corporations
have the most effective marketing because obviously they're the ones who make you think
of this thing.
They have lots of marketing campaigns.
So it's actually very interesting.
So you can say top of mind or you can say top of mind awareness.
You can say Honda has great top of mind among their clients.
Or Ferrari has great top of mind among luxury vehicles.
And now for the last phrase when we talked about money again, this is a very nice colloquial
way of saying that you don't have a lot of money or money is very scarce right now.
Alright, so the phrase is money is tight.
Alright?
So you know the word tight, you can hold something tightly or this belt is tight, I'm gaining
weight.
But in this case, money is tight, that's a phrase we take as a chunk and it means like
you say Marco, I just don't have much money right now.
So money is tight right now.
Now it's interesting because you can say it money is tight and then the subject.
Money is tight for Bill right now.
Or you can say Bill is tight for money at the moment.
So you can switch it up depending on where you put the subject, towards the end or in
the beginning.
Alright, so usually you hear the phrase money is tight right now or money is really tight,
just kind of on its own and it's a way to say I don't have much cash.
So we've taken a look at a lot of words and phrases here.
Let's listen to our dialogue again and we'll be back to talk a little bit more.
Okay everyone, let's begin.
Money is tight for everyone these days, so even our most loyal customers may be reconsidering
the money they pay for their morning coffee.
All right, so going back to top-of-mind awareness, let's test what brands are in your head.
For example, when you think of a luxury sports car, what do you think?
Ferrari.
Ferrari, you mentioned it before.
Or Lamborghini.
Or Lamborghini, but you said Ferrari first.
When you think of a brand of cigarettes, what do you think?
Camel.
Camel, okay.
This is an American brand.
I don't think it's found very commonly in other places.
They have it in Europe.
What about when you think of computers, what do you think?
For some reason, IBM.
IBM, even though you don't own an IBM.
I don't, but I grew up around the IBM revolution.
Okay, see, this is interesting.
So actually, it doesn't always work that way, that because you have a brand in your mind,
it doesn't necessarily mean that you will purchase it in the future if you have the
power to, but at least you are aware of the brand and you recognize it, and the chances
are that you will buy it.
That's right, and you're going to be familiar with it when you read about it or when people
talk about it.
So for example, I own a Mac computer, Apple, but when I think of computers, I just think
of IBM because we used to say, remember, IBM compatible.
Nah, that's right, IBM compatible, because before it was usually just Mac.
Everything was for Mac.
Mac or IBM.
And then all of a sudden, it's PC or Mac.
Actually, that's interesting, though, because if probably, if I say, what do you think of
when you think of, what brand comes to mind when you think of MP3 players?
Apple, the iPod.
You probably think iPod.
That's probably one of the most famous ones, but maybe if you ask somebody about 10 years
ago, when you think about a music player, what do you think about?
Sony, the Sony Walkman.
The Sony Walkman, right, or the Sony Discman.
That's right, had both.
It was like I had a Walkman, it was bright yellow.
This is the way that you see more or less, you can start to realize what brands are in
your mind and maybe unconsciously, you may not even be a smoker, but maybe some sort
of cigarette brand will be in your mind.
Or maybe you don't even really like sports cars, but you will have a sports car brand
in your mind.
I'm very curious to hear what you guys have to say, because obviously, the brands that
we're aware of are dependent on where we come from and the marketing campaigns in our home
countries and also our age.
I was a teenager when I had the Sony Discman, so that made an impact on me.
But let's throw that out to you guys.
Let us know what you think of when we say luxury cars or MP3 players or computers.
Or maybe even basic things like detergents.
For example, if you ask somebody in the United States, they might say Tide.
But if you ask somebody in South America, they might say, I don't know, Omo.
It's some type of brand.
So, this is also very interesting to see what your local brands have been doing.
So, let us know what you're thinking.
We're on EnglishPod.com.
My name is Catherine and today we have an elementary level lesson all about going shopping.
Today we are going with a guy to a shop and he's buying a new suit.
Okay, so lots of great words for men or for buying clothes for your husband or brother.
I need a new suit.
I have an important interview next week, so I really need to look sharp.
We have a broad selection of suits all tailor-made so it will fit perfectly.
I want a three-piece suit, preferably made from Italian cashmere or wool.
Very well, sir.
Would you like to have some shirts made also?
I also take some silver cufflinks and a pair of silk ties.
Now, if you will accompany me, we can take your measurements and choose the patterns
for your suit and shirts.
So a very simple dialogue about a guy needing a suit and he talked to the tailor apparently
about a couple of things.
Now why don't we take a look at some of those words in Language Takeaway.
Well, first of all, a tailor is a person who makes clothes.
So in this case, a man who makes suits.
And the first thing that we have to talk about is the kinds of suits that he has.
He says, we have a broad selection of suits.
So this adjective, broad, what does that mean?
It means wide.
You know, you can have a very broad street.
That means many cars can fit across it.
But in this case, we're talking about a selection.
So that means a broad selection of suits, very, very many suits to choose from.
So for example, if you go to a music store where they sell CDs and stuff like that, they
might, they will have a broad selection of music.
So you can have rap and hip hop and R&B, etc.
Or the iTunes store has a broad selection of music.
You can choose basically anything.
So he has a broad selection of suits and he said, well, great.
I actually need a three-piece suit.
So there are different kinds of suits.
Some just have two pieces like pants and a jacket.
But the kind that the man wants is a three-piece suit.
So that means there's a jacket, pants or trousers, some people might say, and a vest.
So yeah, you've probably seen this.
They look very nice.
Basically under or over your shirt, you wear a vest.
And so if you wear a vest with a suit, it's called the three-piece suit.
You know who I'm thinking of right now who always wears three-piece suits?
He's very famous, a football player actually.
Beckham?
David Beckham.
I don't know if you guys watched the World Cup, but in the World Cup, David Beckham was
always wearing a three-piece suit.
In that heat, that's amazing.
So we have a three-piece suit.
Now, we don't have a four-piece suit, do we?
But basically, tux, you have like the, on your waist, the cummerbund.
Oh, cummerbund.
That's what it's called.
Well, that's for a tuxedo.
Now, moving on, we talk about the materials of the suit.
And he said, well, I preferably want something made from Italian cashmere or wool.
So Italian is an adjective that describes things that come from Italy.
And Italy is very famous for its fabrics and silk.
So in this case, we're talking about Italian wool.
Cashmere is a very expensive, very soft kind of wool.
And wool is basically a sort of material that comes from the sheep, from the hair of the
sheep.
And so different sheep, different animals have different kinds of wool, and these have
different prices.
So some are more expensive and some are cheaper.
Cashmere is very expensive.
And he also is offered some shirts and he's like, yeah, sure, I'll take some shirts.
And I also need some silver cuff links.
So when you close your shirts by your wrist, you usually have a button or in some cases,
something a little bit more fancy.
And when it's more fancy, it's called a cuff link.
You've probably seen it.
It looks like a small metal button that you can remove from your shirt.
It looks a lot better.
It's kind of hard to explain, but just imagine on your wrist, you have a small metal button
that you can close your shirt at the wrist.
And some people have very, very fancy ones with special pictures.
So you could have, for example, a car, if you love cars, or a diamond cuff link with
a diamond on it.
So he wants a cuff links made of silver.
And also he wants a pair of silk ties.
So a pair of means two.
He wants two different silk ties.
And the tie is basically something that you put around your neck.
Men wear these usually to the office.
And ones that are made of silk are usually more expensive.
So a silk tie.
And okay, so we've pretty much covered everything that he needs.
He wants a very nice suit with a lot of great accessories.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue again, and we'll be back with Fluency Builder.
We have a broad selection of suits, all tailor-made, so it will fit perfectly.
I'll also take some silver cuff links and a pair of silk ties.
So in Fluency Builder today, we have three very useful phrases that you can say when
you're with the tailor at the store buying a suit.
The first one is, to look sharp.
He says that he has a job interview, and he wants to look sharp.
Okay, so to look means to have the appearance of, but sharp, what does this mean?
Basically take it as a chunk or as a phrase, and if you look sharp, it means you look smart,
you look good, you look clean, you look very nice.
So this is normally something we say to men.
You look really sharp today.
Or I want him to look sharp.
I'm going to buy him a nice silk tie.
So to look sharp, as I said, to look very nice, very clean, very handsome.
Okay, so looking sharp.
And well, when we were talking about the suit, the person mentioned that all the suits are
tailor-made.
All right, this is a very important phrase if you want to go shopping for clothes that
are made for you.
So something is tailor-made if the sizes are made only for fitting you.
If you go to a department store and you buy a suit off of the shelf or the rack, it's
not tailor-made.
But if the tailor makes it, he sews it to your size, then it's tailor-made.
You know, wedding dresses are tailor-made.
Special suits are tailor-made.
So this is usually an expensive kind of clothing.
Okay, so it basically means the tailor, the person, made it especially for you.
And the opposite, as you said, would be off the rack.
Off the rack.
And this means that when you go to the store, you pick something, you like it, and you buy
No one is going to sew it to make it fit you.
And this is actually how most of us get our clothes.
You go to the department store, you get a pair of jeans, a t-shirt.
Obviously all that stuff is off the rack.
It's not tailor-made for your size.
But if you really want to get something tailor-made, you need to be able to talk to the tailor
So he will usually say, let me take your measurements.
This is our next phrase.
The tailor mentioned that he wants to take them over there and take his measurements.
So when the tailor says, I want to take your measurements or I need to take your measurements,
That means I need to measure parts of your body to help make this suit.
So he'll normally measure your shoulders, your waist, your hips, and how long things
will be.
So your arms and your legs.
And these are all important measurements to know how big or how small to make the suit.
So you need to take your measurements or you can also say you have to get measured.
So to get measured or to take someone's measurements.
These are key phrases for buying a tailor-made suit.
Why don't we listen to our dialogue one last time and we'll be back to talk some more.
I would like to order a new suit.
I'll also take some silver cufflinks and a pair of silk ties.
So do you have any tailor-made suits, Marco?
I actually don't.
I haven't...
Here to the office, I never wear a suit.
We don't really need to wear suits all fancy.
And there have been very few occasions where I've needed a suit.
So I actually don't have a suit at the moment.
Not even one?
Not even one.
Not even off the rack?
I have a few at home and I just haven't used them.
And probably they wouldn't fit anymore.
This is the problem with getting things tailor-made as well.
The thing is that with a tailor-made suit, usually it's made to get bigger or smaller.
So maybe the shoulders and the arms are the same, but if you gain weight or you lose weight,
the tailor can make those small, small changes.
Actually, I had a friend who got some tailor-made jeans.
And I think that would be nice because sometimes, I don't know, jeans for me, they don't fit
Me either.
There's a very famous company that does tailor-made jeans that I was thinking about going to because
I hate buying jeans off the rack.
Yeah, they usually don't fit.
Either the waist is too...
If I need a bigger waist, but then everything is too baggy and it just doesn't look right
or everything is too small.
So I think this is a very interesting thing, although I don't know how expensive it would
be because getting tailor-made clothes is relatively expensive.
It can be very expensive, although that's usually in America or in Europe.
In places like India and China, I think it's much more common to have things made to fit
you, tailor-made.
This is a very interesting subject and actually, we are wondering if maybe you know a tailor,
you are a tailor or you've gotten things tailor-made for you.
Maybe you got married recently and you had a tailor-made tuxedo or a tailor-made wedding
dress.
We can be found at EnglishPod.com.
Bye, guys.
This wasberg.com.
My name is Catherine and today we have the beginning of a very long series on giving
a presentation.
So this series is at the intermediate level, right Marco?
It's part of our business series.
We previously took a look at how to go upon an interview.
Now we're going to talk about presentation.
So everything about a presentation, how to give a presentation, language you can use
in a presentation and a lot of other things like this.
We're going to talk about the very beginning of a presentation.
Let's take a listen to this dialogue and we'll be back in a moment.
Can everyone hear me?
Can you guys at the back hear everything?
I think all of you know why we are here this afternoon.
As most of you are aware, 2010 marks an important moment for Alpha Computers.
We have bounced back from the recession and now we are set to launch our new line of laptop
and desktop computers.
I'm really pleased to welcome Michael Ford, the global marketing manager for Alpha Computers,
who has flown in from California to give all of you an overview of the marketing campaign
and to answer any questions you may have.
So please, give a warm welcome to Mr. Ford.
Thank you, Jonathan.
It really is a pleasure to be here today.
It has been three years since I visited Beijing and it's clear to me that operations here
are obviously going from strength to strength.
The Alpha brand continues to grow in leaps and bounds in China and that is certainly
down to the hard work of all of you here.
So congratulations to all of you.
I'd like to start by outlining the key points of my presentation this afternoon and giving
you an idea of the topics that will be discussed.
The presentation today is divided into five main parts.
First of all, I'd like to briefly touch on the background of the new X420 line, how the
whole concept has come about and how the new product fits into our existing brand line.
Secondly, I'd like to present data on projected sales for the X420.
We will then go on to discuss our key rivals in this sector.
Then I'd like to go on to outline the campaign concept for the X420.
Finally, I'm happy to open up the discussion for any questions or points you may have for
So as you can see, it's the very beginning of a presentation.
We're kind of starting to give people an idea what we're going to talk about.
So let's take a look at some of the language Mr. Ford used on Language Takeaway.
So the reason Mr. Ford is giving a presentation is because he wants to talk about the company's
new line of computers, right?
And so he says that they're going to launch a new line of desktop and laptop computers.
So they want to launch a new line of laptops.
So this verb to launch means to bring out to the market.
So instead of the word to start, which you could use in many different ways, like to
start eating or to start swimming.
In this case, to launch means you're going to introduce a new product to the market.
Like you said, Marco.
So we're going to start selling to the market a new product.
We're going to launch a new line of laptop and desktop computers.
For example, this spring, Steve Jobs launched the iPad, which is a new product.
So he launched the iPad and the iPhone 4.
They're always launching new things at Apple.
So since they're launching this new line of laptop and desktop computers, Mr. Ford first
wanted to give a brief overview of the marketing campaign.
So first of all, we're going to talk about how this product is being marketed.
So you want to give a general picture or a very simple picture of what's going to happen.
So at the beginning, this will happen.
Then this will happen at the end.
This will happen.
And that's what we call an overview.
So it's a brief or general idea of what we're talking about.
An overview, nothing too specific.
We just want to give you a general idea.
After that, Mr. Ford starts talking and he's talking about the presentation, which has
many parts, and he wants to talk about what each part will contain.
So he says, I'd like to briefly touch on the background of the new X420 line.
So this verb, to touch on.
So when he says he wants to touch on the background of this new computer, he's basically saying,
I want to talk about.
So this is potentially very confusing because we know the word to touch means to put your
hand on something.
But to touch on, this is a phrasal verb, this means to talk about or to address.
So for example, a teacher at a university will touch on many topics during his lecture.
Or I'd like to touch on where we're going to dinner tonight because I'm very hungry.
So basically it's a nice way of saying, I want to talk about this topic.
And then apart from touching on the background of the new computer, he said he also wants
to talk about projected sales for this new computer.
So projected sales, this phrase includes two words.
Sales means how much of something you sell, obviously, but projected means what you expect
to sell.
So the projected sales have not happened yet.
They will happen in the future.
And so they're basically my guess about sales.
So basically we are giving an estimate of what we think we will sell.
Those are projected sales.
We think we will sell a thousand computers.
Those are our projected sales.
And after that, we have one more key word.
This word comes at the very end of the speech.
Mr. Ford says, we will then go on to discuss our key rivals.
Now who is a rival, Marco?
So a rival is basically your competitor or maybe kind of your enemy.
So in computers, who is Apple's rival?
Maybe HP or IBM or Dell.
So a rival is someone you compete with.
So he's going to talk about his key rivals.
So basically the word key is your most important rivals.
So for example, who is one of Batman's key rivals?
Because we have rivals not just in business, but also in life.
So I think maybe Batman's key rival might be the Joker.
Or the Penguin.
So let's take another listen to today's dialogue and we'll be back in a moment with some very
important phrases.
All right, so we've prepared three phrases for you.
So this first phrase is really important because it's about the part of the speech that happens
before the speech begins.
You know, usually you have a person who's going to talk about something, but you also
have someone who introduces that person.
You know, this is John.
He's going to talk about computers.
He's very smart.
Listen to everything he says.
So we usually hear the phrase, let's give a warm welcome to.
Yes, this is a very nice way of presenting someone.
So obviously this person is talking to a group of people and he's introducing Mr. Ford.
So he says, let's give a warm welcome to Mr. Ford.
So that's saying let's clap.
Let's say hello to him.
So like you said, this is an invitation to clap.
You have to clap when you hear this.
Warm welcome means let's be nice to him.
Let's all smile and encourage him.
You know, you think about it.
Someone who's going to give a speech is probably nervous.
And so this helps them feel comfortable.
So it's a very nice way if you're maybe presenting someone who's going to talk, you can say,
let's give a warm welcome to whoever you're presenting.
Now when Mr. Ford was talking, he mentioned this very interesting phrase about operations.
He said, it's clear to me that operations here are obviously going from strength to
strength.
So that means things are going well.
You do one thing, you do it well.
You move on to another thing, you do that well as well.
So that's what it means from strength to strength.
So we're saying that things are going from good to better.
And getting better.
Our last phrase is kind of similar to the last one.
The alpha brand continues to grow in leaps and bounds.
So you can have a company that grows.
It grows a little.
You can have a company that grows quite a bit.
Then you have a company that grows in leaps and bounds.
That means a lot.
So to leap is to jump, right?
And so this is what we're saying.
We're just jumping higher and higher.
We're getting bigger and bigger or better and better.
So this is an exaggeration.
It's like saying that it's not going quickly.
It's going the speed of light.
You know, it's just so fast.
All of a sudden, just really growing.
A lot of key vocab.
I think we can listen to this dialogue again.
And we'll be back in a bit.
As most of you are aware, 2010 marks an important moment for alpha computers.
I'm really pleased to welcome Michael Ford, the global marketing manager for alpha computers,
The alpha brand continues to grow in leaps and bounds in China and that is certainly
Alright, so as we mentioned, this is the first part of a ten-part series all about public
speaking, giving a presentation.
We're going to talk about many aspects of a presentation like charts and graphs and
using PowerPoint, all these really modern ways of giving a presentation.
That's right and we're going to try and talk to you about some of the places in presentations
that English learners tend to struggle with.
You know, it's sometimes very hard to know what to say, especially like in today's lesson,
how do you introduce someone in a presentation?
It's not very common to learn how to say that.
So we hope that through these podcasts, you'll be able to learn some really important phrases
and become more comfortable while you're giving presentations in English.
And of course, if you have any questions about these lessons or any of our lessons, you can
always find us at EnglishPod.com or you can send us also your suggestions about any lesson
topics you may have.
So we hope to hear from you.
Please let us know what you're thinking and until next time everyone.
My name is Catherine and today we have an intermediate level lesson all about a very
special kind of person who helps you out with your kids.
Today we want to get a nanny.
A nanny.
So, a nanny is a person, usually a woman, but it can be a man as well I guess.
And this person takes care of your children when you're working or when you're out
of the house.
So, this is what's going on today.
We're going to see what type of responsibilities a nanny has.
And so, let's listen to her dialogue and we'll be back in a bit.
Hey Mel, are you up for some tennis today?
Sorry, I can't.
I have to go to work, pick up Jake and Maddie from school, and make them an afternoon snack,
then take Jake to soccer practice and Maddie to dance class.
You sound exhausted.
Maybe you should hire a nanny to help you out.
She can pick the kids up and take them to their after school activities.
She can also help you do some household chores and run some errands.
It's hard to find the right nanny.
You have to consider her previous work experience, the responsibilities you give her, and how
she interacts with the kids.
I would love to have someone to help me out though.
I think you should definitely consider it.
This way you won't have to juggle such a busy schedule and you'll still get to spend
time with the kids in the evenings.
I can refer you to this great nanny, Amy.
She used to work for my neighbors before they moved away.
She's very responsible, a good cook, and great with kids.
Oh, that's great.
Thanks Grace.
Can you give me her number?
I'll talk it over with Julie and give her a call tomorrow.
Maybe this way I won't be so tired every day and Julie and I might even get to go on a
date once in a while.
So now let's take a look at some key words on Language Takeaway.
So as you said, Marco, we don't just find a nanny, we hire a nanny.
So what does the word hire mean?
Okay, so we have the verb to hire someone and that means to get someone to work for
you and you pay them obviously money in exchange for their services.
Okay, so this is different from finding a job for someone because I could find a job
for someone but maybe that job is at a restaurant.
But when I hire someone, that means I want that person to work for me or for my company.
So in this case, obviously we are not a company, we are just a couple of people who are looking
for a nanny.
So we need to hire a nanny.
We need to get her to work for us and obviously you would pay her a salary.
Alright so when you pay her a salary, you also have some expectations about what the
nanny will do.
So one of those expectations is that the nanny will take the children to their after school
activities.
So this is a phrase if you will or a type of thing that happens after school.
So usually children, when they finish their classes, they have some things that they can
do at school like for example sports.
So this is very common in America but not so common in other parts of the world.
So just to explain, if your child is in high school or middle school, after school is over,
there's no more class, your child might want to play soccer or to go to art class.
And these are things that you do at the school but it's usually considered an activity, not
a class.
So we call these after school activities.
So these activities are usually for recreation.
They're not really part of the curriculum.
It's not a class.
No, you don't get marks or grades for these.
These are just for fun.
A lot of people work and so they need to have these activities for their kids to stay at
school until they finish working.
Okay, so we want the nanny to take the children or pick them up from their after school activities
and we also need the nanny to help out with some household chores.
Okay, so you should know where these chores are being done.
The first word is household which means in the house.
Okay, so examples of household chores would be like cleaning the windows.
Washing the dishes.
Or doing laundry.
So basically any type of cleaning around the house.
That's right, making the house look nicer.
And so usually children have chores.
These are things they need to do but a nanny can also help with household chores.
Okay, and also we want the nanny to help and run some errands.
Okay, so this is funny.
This phrasal, this phrase uses the word to run but we're not running like a sport.
We're going to do some errands but the verb here is to run errands.
So Marco, on Sunday I have to run some errands.
I'm sorry I can't go out to the movie with you guys.
Okay, so to run errands, what does that mean?
Well an errand is like a job or a task that you have to do but it's usually not something
you get paid for.
To run an errand is like to go to the grocery store and pick up food or to pick up your
clothes at the laundromat.
You have dry cleaning.
Okay so they're kind of like chores I guess but you don't really do them in the house.
You have to go outside and run these errands.
You have to go pay your bills for example.
Exactly and so when I was growing up, on the weekends my mother would always run all of
her errands because during the week she had to work.
I think we can go ahead and listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back in a bit
with Fluency Builder.
I have to go to work, pick up Jake and Maddie from school and make them an afternoon snack
You have to consider her previous work experience, the responsibilities you give her and how
This way you won't have to juggle such a busy schedule and you'll still get to spend time
with the kids in the evenings.
She's very responsible, a good cook and great with kids.
Alright we're back with Fluency Builder and so let's take a look at some of these phrases
So this first phrase is a very spoken English phrase, something that you're going to hear
all the time, especially if you're talking to your American friends.
We say, are you up for some tennis today?
To be up for.
Okay, so to be up for something.
This is from the very first sentence when Grace says, hey Mel, are you up for some tennis
What does it mean if I ask someone if they are up for some tennis?
This means, would you like to play tennis today?
Are you interested in playing tennis today?
So is this a good idea for you?
Do you want to do this?
So basically, are you willing to play tennis today?
Alright, so to be up for is to be interested in or willing to do something.
Are you up for a movie tonight?
Okay, or maybe you can ask your friend, are you up for grabbing a bite to eat later on?
Absolutely, I'm hungry.
So to be up for is a good way to ask a question.
After that though, we have another phrase.
This phrase is very important when you're trying to get someone to help you.
So how do we ask, can you help me?
In the dialogue we saw how Mel said that it would be a great idea to get a nanny because
she would love to have someone to help me out.
So to help someone out, to help me out.
So this is interesting because you could say, I need someone to help me.
But it's more common to hear the phrase, to help me out.
So you're not going out.
It doesn't have to do with space.
But we just say this phrase, to help out, means to help someone.
So it's basically the exact same thing, but it just sounds a lot more natural.
So, Marco, I'm moving tomorrow.
Do you have some time to help me out?
Okay, so you say help me out, but you could also say, do you have time to help me?
And both are okay.
Or if I'm talking about me and my friend, we're really busy tomorrow.
Do you have any time to help us out?
Okay, so we just changed the person there.
We went to the plural form.
Me, us, you.
And so for our last phrase, this is actually also very interesting.
When Grace was telling Mel that she's really busy and if she gets a nanny, she wouldn't
have to juggle such a busy schedule.
All right, so the key verb here is to juggle.
Now I wish I could show this to you guys, but as this is an audio podcast, I can't.
What does the verb to juggle mean, Marco?
Well, I don't know if you've ever seen clowns or at a circus where people have three balls
and they throw them in the air with two hands and they're basically throwing stuff in the
air, sometimes balls or pins and stuff like that.
Sometimes fire.
Fire.
So that's to juggle, basically to have many things in your hands and be able to move them
at the same time.
All right, so when you're talking about a busy schedule, this means that you have lots
and lots of things to do.
It's important to be able to juggle your busy schedule.
That means to handle doing many things at the same time.
All right, so another way to say this is because you're so busy right now, having a nanny will
help you complete your tasks or finish what you need to do.
So you can also say the CEO of the company has to juggle a very busy schedule.
All right, he has many, many things to do in general.
So a lot of stuff.
I think it's time for us to listen to this dialogue one last time and we'll be back to
I have to go to work, pick up Jake and Maddie from school and make them an afternoon snack,
So there are a lot of people all over the world who have nannies.
I often see them when I go to New York City.
You know, women who take out the kids and they push them in strollers and mom and dad
maybe go to work or have classes or something.
Now this is interesting because there's also another word called a babysitter, but it's
different, right?
There's a difference between a nanny and a babysitter.
They both take care of kids, but I think it's the time that they do it that's the difference.
So nannies are usually hired on a contract basis.
You say, I need a nanny to come and watch my kids every day, Monday to Friday for the
next six months.
But with a babysitter, you say, hey, my husband and I, we want to go to watch a movie on Friday.
Can you come for two hours?
So a nanny is long-term.
It's someone who maybe lives with you, someone who does some work at your house, someone
who cleans the dishes and watches the kids.
A babysitter just comes once a month or just when you need her.
So that's the main difference between a nanny and a babysitter.
Now, as you said, they're very, very common nowadays because I guess it's not like before
when women usually would stay at home and take care of the children.
Now both parents usually work and so more people are getting nannies.
Although nannies can be very expensive.
It depends where you live.
And so for people who can't afford a nanny, if a nanny is too expensive, the child, the
baby will go to daycare.
And that's actually like a place where many babies or children are together and there's
one teacher or one nanny who takes care of everyone.
Maybe some of our listeners grew up with a nanny or had a nanny when they were growing
Or maybe you have kids of your own and you have a nanny now.
You should check our website out.
It's our EnglishPod.com.
And don't forget to like our podcast.
Hello everyone and welcome to EnglishPod. My name is Marco.
My name is Catherine and we're talking about the stars today.
That's right. Today we're going to talk about a very popular subject. Many people believe
in the horoscope.
So a horoscope is basically a system, a very old system of determining your future and
describing your personality. And so it all depends on when you were born and where you
were born. So what stars were in the sky when you were born.
That's right. So basically, as many of you may know, there are 12 signs and we're going
to talk about a couple of them and a little bit more about horoscopes and this, I don't
know, I guess it's kind of like a branch of science or...
Pseudo-science.
Yeah, I don't think there's much testing that's going on, but it's definitely something that
a lot of people believe in. So let's take a listen to today's dialogue and we'll be
back in a moment to talk more about it.
Hey, Lydia, what are you reading?
I'm looking at my horoscope for this month. My outlook is very positive. It says that
I should take a vacation to someplace exotic and that I will have a passionate summer fling.
What are you talking about? Let me see that. What are horoscopes?
It's a prediction of your month based on your zodiac sign. You have a different sign for
the month and date you were born in. I was born on April 15th, so I'm an Aries. When
were you born?
January 5th.
Let's see. You're a Capricorn. It says that you'll be feeling stress at work, but you
could see new exciting developments in your love life. Looks like we'll both have interesting
summers.
That's bogus. I don't feel any stress at work and my love life is practically non-existent.
This zodiac stuff is all a bunch of nonsense.
No it's not. Your astrology sign can tell you a lot about your personality. See, it
says that an Aries is energetic and loves to socialize.
Well you certainly match those criteria, but they're so broad they could apply to anyone.
What does it say about me?
A Capricorn is serious minded and practical. She likes to do things in conventional ways.
That sounds just like you!
Alright we're back. So a very interesting dialogue between these two girls talking about
one of them believing in the horoscope and the other one doesn't. But they mentioned
a lot of interesting things, so we're going to have two language takeaways today. Let's
start with language takeaway part one.
Language takeaway
Alright, so one of the most common things you'll hear when we talk about the horoscope
in English is an outlook. And an outlook can be positive or negative. So what exactly is
an outlook?
Well, if you notice Lydia said, my outlook is very positive. So basically she's talking
about her future.
Alright, so the way that she sees the future or the way that the horoscope talks about
the future is a positive one. So you could say, you know those eight balls? They're black
and they have like a message and you shake it and it gives you a message.
You ask a question I think sometimes.
You ask a question and it says outlook positive.
Outlook negative. So that means in your near future things will either be positive or negative.
So I guess you can apply it for example to a company. You say that a company has a positive
outlook.
Or even a person. You know he's a very positive person so he has a positive outlook. He thinks
good things are going to happen.
Okay, very good. So talking about horoscopes, obviously we must mention the 12 zodiac signs.
Okay, so each month has its own sign and they're not exactly the months. They're a little bit
different but each sign is kind of an animal or a symbol.
So for example, a lot of August is part of the Leo sign in English. That's the lion.
And so the lion is the animal, the zodiac.
So the zodiac sign is one of these signs. Like Leo is one of the zodiac signs. And I
guess all 12 signs are considered the zodiac or the horoscope.
Exactly and you can actually talk about the zodiac in terms of other cultures. There is
a Chinese zodiac. So we could say it's the year of the horse. But that's a little bit
different from what we're talking about here with the Western horoscope.
Okay, very good. So all of this actually comes down to the, as we say, the pseudoscience
or the branch called astrology.
Astrology. So this is a very hard word for some people to remember because they want
to say astronomy. But it's different. Astronomy is the scientific study of the skies, the
stars, planets, things like that. Astrology is different. It's what we're talking about
here, the horoscope and reading the stars to understand what our personal futures will
hold for us.
That's right. So astronomy is an exact science part of, I guess, physics where you talk about
the stars or the composition of the stars and their movements. Whereas in astrology
we're talking about zodiacs and horoscopes and basically what star was in the sky when
you were born but in a different way. It's not very scientific.
That's right. So astrology is normally what you would see in the newspaper when you're
trying to find your horoscope, astrology or horoscope.
And actually every time you read the newspaper, if you look up your zodiac sign, it makes
a prediction about your day or your week or maybe even sometimes the month or year.
That's right. And so prediction is basically a guess about what will happen for you.
That's right. So many times you see that the horoscope will say finances are in trouble,
be careful with how you spend your money. So they're making a prediction that in the
future maybe you're going to have money problems so you have to be careful.
Exactly or in the dialogue you will have a passionate summer fling. This is a prediction.
It has not yet happened. It will happen.
That's right. That's right. A prediction. So now talking a little bit more about the
zodiac signs that we saw in the dialogue, we mentioned two, Aries and Capricorn.
So a lot of people who believe in astrology say that astrological signs are broken up.
They're divided into different kinds of sign. We have water signs, air signs, earth signs
and fire signs. One of the famous fire signs is Aries, right?
Aries. It's like the god of war in the Greek mythology.
That's right. So it's pronounced Aries. Aries.
A-R-I-E-S. Aries. That's right.
And the other one is a Capricorn. Capricorn. So that's like a goat?
Yeah. It's kind of like a ram. A ram.
So an earth sign. That's right. So there are 12. These are just
two of them and obviously there are a lot more. I guess off the top of my head we have
Taurus or Leo. There's also a Scorpio.
Sagittarius. Sagittarius.
Gemini. Gemini, which are like twins, twin people.
There's Pisces. Virgo.
And Virgo, the Virgin. And I don't know if we're missing anything.
I can't think now. We'll have to talk about it at the very end of today's lesson. But
we actually have some interesting things to talk about in a minute here. We have to talk
about the personality characteristics that are common when you're talking about different
zodiac signs. Okay. So before we get to that, let's listen
to our dialogue again. Hey, Lydia. What are you reading?
were you born? January 5th.
summers. That's bogus. I don't feel any stress at
work and my love life is practically non-existent. This zodiac stuff is all a bunch of nonsense.
No, it's not. Your astrology sign can tell you a lot about your personality. See? It
Well, you certainly match those criteria, but they're so broad they could apply to anyone.
What does it say about me? A Capricorn is serious-minded and practical.
She likes to do things in conventional ways. That sounds just like you.
Alright, we're back. So now, let's take a look at these personality traits on Language
Takeaway Part 2.
Alright, so one of the great words that we heard in today's dialogue was exotic. This
is not necessarily describing a person, but usually things or clothes or places. In this
instance, it was some place exotic. What's an exotic place?
It's basically a place that's very unique and I guess it's kind of not common to go
there or to find. For example, many people talk about an exotic getaway going to the
jungle because it's so exotic. You have so many strange animals and plants and everything
is so unfamiliar.
Right, so in my mind, Tahiti is very exotic. It's full of jungle and there's also beaches
and it's very unusual for someone who's from America because it's just so far away.
That's right, exotic. So, someone can also have an exotic personality because maybe they're
a little bit strange or not strange but not so common, maybe unique.
Yeah, although exotic is usually kind of a sexy thing when you're talking about people.
You know, she looks very exotic. That means she doesn't look like everybody else here.
That's right. But another adjective to describe someone's personality is somebody that's very
energetic.
All right, so energetic sounds like the word energy. That's because they're related. So,
someone who's energetic has lots of energy. He or she likes to do a lot of things and
wants to always go places. You know the energetic person at your office. They always drink coffee.
Maybe they make everyone else really tired just listening to them.
That's right. And actually, a person that's energetic usually also loves to socialize.
That's right. So, loves to means they like to but they like it a lot, right? But to socialize
means to talk to other people or to go to parties or to meet new people.
So if it's a verb, to socialize means to talk to people, to meet people, to greet people.
You love to have contact with other people.
So yeah, you're right. Very, very common for people who are energetic.
Okay. And what about someone that's practical? What is that like?
Someone who's practical does a lot of things. Maybe someone who's practical always comes
to their activities prepared. So in my car, I'm very practical. I have extra water and
a spare tire. But you can also say, I'm a very practical person. I like to do things
that I can achieve as opposed to someone who always wants to do things that they can't
really achieve.
Okay. So a practical person is usually very realistic and very down to earth. Maybe someone
that's practical, if they're going on a trip, they'll only take what's necessary, not more
than they need.
Yeah, exactly. Let me give you a good example. I like to go hiking and sometimes I see women
who have not made very practical decisions about the shoes they wear. So I like to wear
hiking boots. These are very practical. Wearing high heels on a mountain is not very practical.
That's right. Okay. Very good. Now, we also mentioned that a Capricorn is serious minded
and conventional in many ways.
Someone who's serious minded maybe doesn't like to have fun and go out and do things
that are silly. Someone who's serious minded is usually very practical, I think, and really
has a goal, wants to achieve that goal. No time to be silly. No time to make jokes.
So it doesn't necessarily mean that the person is boring, but they're just very, as you said,
practical.
And what about that a Capricorn also likes to do things in conventional ways?
All right. So conventional means doing something in a conventional way means that you're doing
it in a traditional way. So this is a thing we've always done. We've always done it in
this way, and I'm going to continue to do it in this way. So the opposite is unconventional.
That means doing things in new ways, doing things with your imagination. And so something
that's very conventional is something that has been established, and we're just going
to continue doing it that way.
So for example, someone that gets married in a church is the conventional way, but someone
that gets married while skydiving is very unconventional.
That's right. Unconventional. Absolutely.
Very good. So a lot of great vocab here. Why don't we listen to her dialogue one last time,
and we'll be back to talk with you a little bit more.
the month and date you were born in. I was born on April 15, so I'm an Aries. When were
you born?
January 5.
That's bogus. I don't feel any stress at work, and my love life is practically non-existent.
A Capricorn is serious-minded and practical. She likes to do things in conventional ways.
Alright, so talk about the horoscopes. Which sign are you?
I'm a Leo, which is actually... I don't believe in the horoscope, but I have to say, every
time someone tells me about Leos, Leo the Lion, right? I agree with most of their descriptions
of my personality. So, outspoken, loves to socialize, very opinionated, which means I
have an opinion and I don't like to listen to other people, loves to argue very loud.
So these are all qualities that I think I have, and some of them are bad, some of them
are good, but you know, that's the way it is.
But you don't really believe in what magazines or newspapers say about your outlook?
Nah, I don't... yeah, the predictions are usually just basic guesses. But what about
you? What's your sign?
I am a Taurus, so I was born in May.
A bull.
A bull, yes. So I'm very stubborn and very strong. I don't really know what all the characteristics
about the Taurus are.
Opinionated?
Opinionated, I know that it's stubborn.
Loves to argue?
Doesn't like to be corrected?
Are you describing Taurus or are you describing me?
All right, so it's actually very interesting. I think in many ways, sometimes the glove
does fit and someone's zodiac sign describes them very well. But again, maybe like the
dialogue says, they are very broad descriptions that basically any person can relate to.
Absolutely. I think that that's one of the tricks to horoscopes or to predicting someone's
future. You tell them enough very vague things that maybe some of them will fit and some
of them won't.
But I'm very curious to hear about you guys. What are your signs? What's your sign? That
means what's your zodiac sign?
That's right. That's actually also a very common date question people say, oh, what's
your sign?
Or a pickup line.
Hey baby, what's your sign?
To see if you're compatible, right?
Right. So let us know. We're not trying to pick you up. We're just curious. You'll find
a lot of the words for the zodiac in today's lesson on our website, EnglishPod.com.
Do it again, do it again.
My name is Catherine and today we have part two of a very important and very valuable
series about giving presentations.
As you well know, we started this series.
It's a ten-part series and today we're going to talk about sales and charts and graphs
and more or less explaining maybe a PowerPoint presentation.
And some wonderful ways of talking about changes in markets and marketing.
what you've heard.
As all of you are well aware, competition in the laptop computer sector is intense.
We continue to fight with our competitors for market share and this is the case both
in the developed markets in the West as well as more developing markets in Asia and Africa.
You may ask yourself, why is this market so cutthroat?
Well, the answer is simple.
There is a huge untapped potential market out there with a huge untapped potential for
profit.
If I bring up the first graph here, it shows the increase in terms of number of computer
owners across the globe.
As you can see, in the 1980s, computer ownership amounted to around 0.5% of the total world
population.
Since the 1990s, computer ownership has risen dramatically.
In the new millennium, we saw an even larger explosion in computer owners with figures
rising to around 4-5%, an increase of 1000% compared with the 1980s.
If we move on to discuss the figures for China specifically, we can see in chart B that the
overall figure for computer ownership stands at around 60 million, which represents a huge
increase in a very short time period.
Now of course, 60 million is just a drop in the ocean if you compare the total population
of China.
And this is a key reason why the personal computer market is such a hot market.
For us at Alpha, and of course for all of our competitors as well, we have millions
of potential customers who are looking to join the internet generation.
If we do this right, we really can reap huge rewards in a very short time frame.
I'd now like to move on to discuss the X420 brand itself and compare and contrast with
some of our key competitors.
Alright we're back so now let's start with Language Takeaway.
Okay, so in the first part of what Mr. Ford is saying, he mentions something called market
share.
Now Margot, what is market share?
That's right, everyone is competing for market share and this is basically a small portion
of your available market.
So for example, if you sell perfumes, women's perfume, then your market share is maybe women
who are 18 to 35 years old in your city or in your town or in your country.
Right, so when we're talking about market share because we're sharing a piece of this
big pie, we're going to talk about that in terms of a percentage, so 30% or 15%.
I think maybe one of the clearest examples is Coca-Cola has I think maybe a 60% market
share of the carbonated beverages market.
Interesting, so you could say that Apple has a 50% market share of the personal computing
Very good, so this is what we refer to as market share.
Now as we continue to talk about markets, we have two very interesting words when we
refer to a developed market and a developing market.
Okay so a developed market is something that has been polished and grown over time.
Perhaps we talk about the developed world being Western Europe and America, but then
we have developing markets and those are markets that are still trying to figure out kind of
They're growing.
They're usually growing much faster than a developed market.
That's right, so again when we're talking about maybe computers, we consider for example
the United States a developed market.
Many people already have a computer or express the desire to buy one and so maybe a developing
market are some of the African countries where they're still growing and so now they're beginning
to purchase more and more computers.
Okay so developed and developing, two different ways to describe markets.
Now after that we hear this phrase cutthroat.
So someone asks why is this market so cutthroat?
A cutthroat business or a cutthroat industry.
It means that it's very, very competitive.
Okay so cutthroat, we're actually talking about maybe having a knife and cutting someone
else's throat, but it's just a metaphor.
It's a way of saying yes, this is very competitive.
So you're not actually cutting someone's throat.
Right, everyone is fighting for that market share so it's very cutthroat.
Everyone is fighting very, very hard, but you're not literally killing someone or cutting
their throats.
You could even use this to talk about a sporting event.
You could say it was a cutthroat game.
That's right, that's right.
So anything that's very competitive or very close.
So to finish off language takeaway when Mr. Ford was towards the end of his presentation,
he said that the rewards could be very, very big in a very short time frame.
So when we say the word time frame, we mean period of time.
It's not like 2 p.m.
It's like from May to June, we have this short time frame.
It's only 2 months long.
So time frame is a window or a period.
So this is what he is referring to is that in a very short period or in this period of
time, they could make a lot of money, a time frame.
But how long would a long time frame be?
Maybe a couple of years.
All right, so you can have a short time frame and a long time frame.
So why don't we take a look at our dialogue again and we'll be back shortly with Fluency
So now we've picked out a couple of different phrases for you.
Let's check those out now on Fluency Builder.
So in today's dialogue, we heard Mr. Ford talk about some numbers.
He's talking about growth and change in the market.
And he says with figures to around 4-5%, we've got an overall increase of 1000%.
So what's a phrase, an increase of?
Very very common when you're talking about growth of maybe revenue or when you're talking
about the growth of a company or sales for example.
So it's important to remember here that this is a fixed phrase.
We say an increase of 10% or an increase of 30%.
But you can use the same phrase with drops in percentages or money.
So you can say a decrease of 10%.
That means that you go down 10% or a decrease of 100%.
So a very useful phrase when talking about incrementing someone or as you said, decreasing
it, decrease of 5%.
Now Mr. Ford used a very interesting phrase when referring to the Chinese market.
Obviously it's a very big market.
And he says that the computer ownership stands at around 60 million.
But of course 60 million is just a drop in the ocean if you compare it to the population
It's a big percentage or a small percentage?
Very very small.
So what he's saying here is it's like a drop of water in an ocean.
So a drop of water is so small you don't even notice it.
You don't even see it because the ocean is so big.
And so you can use this in many different ways.
You can say, hey, you know, $5 is just a drop in the ocean.
It's not really important because it's very little money.
So it's sort of like a metaphor saying, you know what, it's very insignificant.
Just a drop of water in an ocean.
It's not really something you can notice.
Just a drop in the ocean.
And now at the very end of today's speech, we heard the phrase to compare and contrast.
So we're talking about the X420 computer brand itself.
Now what does Mr. Ford mean when he says to compare and contrast?
So when we mention the word compare, we are basically trying to determine how they are
similar in many ways, the characteristics of how they are similar.
And to contrast is how they are different, right?
So let's use an example.
Perhaps we could say Pepsi and Coca-Cola.
Let's compare and contrast.
So they're both carbonated beverages.
They are both sweet.
And they're both, they're pretty much the same color.
And they're also fairly cheap.
They have about the same price.
But I would say that Coca-Cola tastes more like prune.
So that would be a contrasting characteristic of Coca-Cola is that maybe it tastes a little
bit sweeter.
And you could also say it's easier to find Coca-Cola.
Pepsi is less easy to find sometimes.
Another way that they're different.
To compare and contrast is to point out how two things are similar and how they're different.
So we've had a lot of interesting phrases there.
I think very useful if you're talking about business and marketing and sales.
So why don't we listen to our dialogue one last time.
We continue to fight with our competitors for market share.
And this is the case both in the developed markets in the West as well as more developing
markets in Asia and Africa.
There's a huge untapped potential market out there with a huge untapped potential for profit.
rising to around 4 to 5%, an increase of 1000% compared with the 1980s.
So, as we mentioned, this is just a part of our presentation series.
We're going to keep on talking with Mr. Ford as he discusses business and a lot of other
very interesting and useful skills for talking in public.
And the goal of this series is to help you feel better when you're giving a presentation
in English.
We all know it's very, very hard to talk in English when you're still learning, but it's
even harder to talk alone, to give a speech or a presentation.
And so the point of this series is to really give you those skills and to help teach you
some of the key phrases and words that you'll be using in your presentations in the future.
So if you have any questions or any doubts, we are always available at EnglishPod.com
My name is Catherine and today we have an elementary level lesson about things that
you buy for your kitchen.
Today we are going to buy a lot of machines and devices for our kitchen.
So let's jump into the dialogue.
Let's see what we are buying and we'll be back in a bit.
I have been looking at this online catalog for over an hour and I still haven't finished
getting all the kitchen appliances that we need.
What are you getting?
Well, the first thing on my list is a new blender.
I decided to also get a juicer and a new coffee maker.
Don't forget to also get a new mixer.
I lent the old one to my brother and he broke it.
I also decided to throw away the old toaster and get a new one.
I am also getting a rice cooker and a steamer to make some nice steamed fish or veggies.
I'm actually thinking of completely refurnishing the kitchen and getting a new stove, oven,
dishwasher and trash compactor.
That's a good idea.
The kitchen will look amazing.
So now let's take a look at some of those strange machines on Language Takeaway.
Okay, so the kinds of machines you buy for your kitchen are called kitchen appliances.
Okay, so the word appliance, an appliance is basically a machine or device that is
used for the home, right?
So there are many different kinds of appliances.
You can usually plug these in.
They usually need electricity to work.
But the ones we're talking about today are special.
They're for the kitchen.
So that's why we call them kitchen appliances.
So the kitchen appliances that we are looking at or we're trying to buy is, well, the first
one we have is a blender.
A blender.
So a blender is a kitchen appliance that you use normally to make drinks.
So this is a glass jar that is, that's usually on the top of a little machine.
Now when you put in, for example, some ice and some tea and some lemonade and you can
mix it up and you have this special mixed drink.
So it's called a blender.
So as you mentioned, it's usually used to make some sort of juice or drink.
But we also are getting a juicer which is specifically to make juices.
Now what is the difference between a blender and a juicer?
Well a blender is a machine that turns the things inside it around.
So it mixes them together.
But a juicer is different because a juicer will actually take the juice from the fruit.
So for example, if I have an orange and I cut the orange in half, I put that half on
the juicer and it turns around so that the juice will come down.
Because otherwise I have to use my hands to squeeze it and that takes time.
So this is an electronic appliance that helps me get the juice from my fruits.
So we have a juicer to make juice, a blender to make different drinks and now to make coffee
we have a very simple machine, a coffee maker.
Okay so a coffee maker is just a simple machine that you put water and coffee into and it
will make the coffee for you.
Usually it's called a drip coffee maker because the coffee drip, drip, drip, drips down.
But there are many different kinds of coffee makers.
Now this next appliance can be a little bit confusing because now this one is called a
mixer.
So what is the difference between a blender, a juicer and now we have a mixer?
Well there are different kinds of mixers actually but usually the kind of mixer that we are
referring to, that we're talking about is one that is electronic and it looks like it
has these two funny spoons on the end.
And when you turn the mixer on, you put it into a bowl and you mix the things in the
bowl.
So for example, if I want to make pancakes, I put some flour and some water and some eggs
into a bowl.
And I could stir it with my hand, with my spoon, but it's very tiring.
So there's a mixer that's electronic to turn those ingredients around on its own.
So it's quicker and obviously you don't get as tired.
So I think we should take a break.
Let's go back to our dialogue.
Let's check out some more appliances and we'll be back to talk about the rest of them.
Now, let's take a look at more kitchen appliances on Language Takeaway Part 2.
Well, this first item, this first appliance is something that I know a lot of people all
over the world are familiar with.
It's called a rice cooker.
Now, a rice cooker, as the name says, it is used to cook rice but it does it in a very
simple and automatic way.
You put the rice in the water in the rice cooker and you turn it on to, what, 20 minutes
and then later, 20 minutes later, it's already cooked.
It's done.
It's actually very convenient and very simple to make.
Now, along with a rice cooker, sometimes we also get a steamer.
So a steamer is something that we normally use with vegetables or in Asia, a lot of times
we use it with dumplings, these little foods that are stuffed.
And so, a steamer is something that you use to cook a food but with the steam from hot
You don't put the food in the water, you don't fry the food, but you use the steam, that
hot air, to cook the food inside.
So it's actually considered to be some of the, one of the healthiest ways of cooking
food because it's not as oily.
Now, an interesting appliance that is actually not very popular in any other place except,
I think, North America, is a trash compactor.
So, trash means garbage.
It's the things that you want to throw away that you won't use anymore.
And a compactor is something that actually takes the trash and it makes it very small.
Compact means small.
And so, a trash compactor is like a special garbage bin.
You put your garbage in it and you close it and you say, compact, and then it makes a
loud noise.
And then when you pull it out, you open it up, the trash is very, very small.
So it's very easy to throw away.
So as we said, I've never actually seen this appliance in any other country except the
United States and Canada.
I don't think I have either, but it's pretty popular in American homes because it helps
save space and it's very easy to throw things away that way.
You can make a little bundle of trash and it's much easier than throwing a big bag of
trash away.
And well, we're doing all this because we are kind of refurnishing the kitchen.
We are giving it new furniture.
So we want to change the appearance.
And to do this, we will refurnish.
So to furnish something means to put furniture in it to make it look nice.
To refurnish means to change the furniture because we already have some, but we don't
And so you can do this with your whole house.
So maybe you throw away the old couch and the table and the kitchen cabinets and you
put a new one.
So you are refurnishing your home, refurnishing the kitchen.
To refurnish.
So a lot of great vocab here.
I think this is very useful for the kitchen, especially if sometimes you don't really know
what appliance you need to buy or what the instructions of a recipe say.
So why don't we listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back in a bit.
Now another appliance that I think is also not very popular in other countries, apart
from the trash compactor, we saw in the dialogue a dishwasher.
A dishwasher, that's right.
So this is something that you find in many American homes.
So why do you think trash compactors and dishwashers are not so popular in other places?
It's possible it's because they're not very energy efficient.
I'm not really sure.
I never had a trash compactor in my home in America, but we always had a dishwasher and
a dishwasher.
This was very, very nice to have because you don't have to wash the dishes by yourself.
You put them in the machine and the machine washes them.
But you have to do some work before you put the dishes in the dishwasher, right?
You have to put them in the sink and water for a while and then you take them out and
then you put it in the dishwasher, right?
No, what we usually did is if there was food on the plate, we'd take the food and we'd
put it in the trash.
And if it's, you know, sometimes you leave the plate for like a day or two and it's very
dirty, you put some water on it because otherwise it will be hard and it will never come off.
But if it's recently used, you put all the plates, all of the cups, all of the knives
and forks into the dishwasher and it uses hot water and some soap and it will wash those
dishes in about 30 minutes.
So how well does it wash?
It washes very, very well.
Some work better than others, but of course, if you have food that's two days old on a
plate, then it won't wash very well.
I think it also has to do with the type of instruments that people use around the world
For example, big pots.
I don't think you can put pots in the dishwasher, right?
No, you can't.
You could not put a wok in the dishwasher.
But I think it also has to do with the fact that dishwashers are very big.
And if you have a small apartment or like me, a very small kitchen, it's impossible
to make room for a dishwasher.
But it seems like a very convenient thing.
And of course, there are so many other kitchen appliances that, well, if we started to mention
all of them, we would run out of time.
But if you have any questions or any comments about this lesson or you have maybe some other
kitchen appliances, you can come to our website EnglishPod.com and leave those there.
We hope to see you at EnglishPod and until next time.
Today we're going to take a look at our mobile phones but not the physical phone.
Now we're going to talk about services that you can get for your mobile phone.
Alright so in America and many other places you don't buy that little card with money
You actually have to pay every month for a service.
So we're going to learn about this today.
Let's check out our dialogue.
Telco Mobile how can I help you?
Yes, I'd like to activate my voicemail service please.
Certainly sir.
We currently have a special promotion where we include voicemail services, call waiting
and also three-way calling.
Sure, that sounds great.
Are there any other fees?
No hidden fees or surcharges.
It is a flat monthly rate.
I also wanted to know if there's any call forwarding service.
I am usually out of town and would like my calls to be forwarded to a local number.
We can activate all these services in about an hour.
So now let's take a look at some of these services on Language Takeaway.
So Marco the first word that I want to talk about today is this verb to activate.
We have a verb here to activate and this means to make something start to work, to make something
begin.
So to turn on but you don't say hey can you activate the light?
You say can you turn on the light.
But to activate means to start a service.
So this is what we want today.
We want to activate some services and the first one that we ask for is voicemail service.
Voicemail service.
Now let's think about the words that make up this one word.
Voicemail.
So it's like a mailbox for your phone.
Where you leave messages, obviously not text messages but you leave voice messages.
So I'm sorry I cannot answer the phone right now.
Please leave a message after the beep.
That's my voicemail message.
So it's actually a very useful thing.
We'll talk about that a little bit later.
But let's take a look at our next service.
We also want to get call waiting.
So this is a very interesting service.
I don't know if they have this in other parts of the world but in America if I'm talking
on the phone to you Marco and we're having a nice conversation but then my mom calls,
when I'm talking I hear beep, beep, beep.
I hear some sounds and that means someone else is trying to call you.
So you can't hear this but I can hear this and that means if I want to talk to my mom
I'll say, hey Marco listen, someone else is calling, can I call you tomorrow?
So actually call waiting is a very useful service because the person that's calling
you will never get a busy signal.
You'll always see them available.
But the good thing is that you can switch between calls.
So I could say, hey Marco listen, I think that's my mom, can you hold, can you wait,
I will be right back and then I push a button and then I can talk to my mom and then my
mom says, okay I'll talk to you later, I push a button and then Marco you're there.
Very useful service as well.
Now let's take a look at our next service that we are also getting as part of this package.
We are getting three-way calling.
So from the name of this we can think of three people talking.
So maybe Marco you want to talk to my mom too.
So we can talk and then we add another person so you can call a third phone number, one,
two, three, me, you and someone else and the three of us can talk at the same time.
So it's kind of a way of having a small conference between three people.
And so this is what you can do with three-way calling.
You can call two people simultaneously and talk to them at the same time.
So a lot of great services here.
I think we've learned a couple of different things.
Why don't we review it and listen to the dialogue again.
Telco Mobile, how can I help you?
So now let's keep on going here towards the last half of our dialogue.
Let's take a look at some more words on Language Takeaway Part 2.
So this first phrase in Language Takeaway Part 2 is hidden fees.
Hidden fees.
The operator guarantees that there are no hidden fees.
So this is usually what we call the fine print, the small fees that we don't really know about.
So they say, oh, it costs $3 a month, but you have small little hidden fees.
Like if you're late on a payment, they'll charge you an extra dollar or if you use the
service too much, they'll charge you another extra dollar.
So a fee is something that you pay, all right, and something that is hidden means you cannot
see it.
And so like you're saying with this example, there are many, many conditions, many, many
different things, rules that we have to follow.
And if we don't follow those rules exactly, then maybe this company that provides the
phone service will ask us for more and more money.
And actually it has to do a lot with our next word where she said that there are also no
surcharges.
Okay, so a surcharge is an extra amount of money that you have to pay.
So we say that this service has no hidden fees or surcharges.
So that means that we don't have to pay anything additional to what we are already paying.
For example, some companies will say, okay, pay us $10 and you get your new cell phone
phone plan.
But to activate your service is another $5.
So the total price is $15 and that's, that's a surcharge.
It's an extra fee that you have to pay.
And continuing on the topic of money, she says it is a flat monthly rate, a flat monthly
rate.
Well, monthly is an adverb that tells us how often we pay.
We pay one time every month.
But this term flat rate is very, very important and it happened.
We use this term a lot when we're talking about paying fees.
So a flat rate means it does not change when you, for example, talk more on the phone.
So you pay the same amount every month.
A clear example is probably your internet service provider.
You pay $20 a month and that's a flat rate.
If you use the internet 24 hours a day, nothing happens.
You don't pay more.
If you use it less, you still pay the same amount of money.
So what if I pay $10 normally, but this month I use the internet a lot and now I have to
pay $15.
Is that a flat rate?
No, no, that's not a flat rate.
That's a change that that changes with my use.
So now let's take a look at one last service that this man was also interested in getting
and he says that he wants to get a call forwarding service.
He wants to forward his calls to a local number.
So to forward something means to pass it along.
So call forwarding means that if I'm not available, for example, I'm not at home and someone calls
my home, there's no one there to talk to the person that's calling, then maybe I could
have a call forwarding service that will make the call go to my cellular phone.
So the call forwarding means that the call will travel to another phone.
So as you said, this is what call forwarding is and the word to forward, as you said, to
pass along, maybe many of you have done it in your emails.
When you get maybe a nice message, you forward it to more of your friends and this is the
exact same definition.
So you have one message and you pass it on to someone else.
And so in call forwarding, you normally have this service if you're often on business trips
or traveling, you're out of town.
It's very, very helpful for people who are not in one place all the time.
So why don't we listen to the dialogue one last time and we'll be back in a bit.
Yes, I'd like to activate my voicemail service, please.
So talking about all these services, it's very interesting because many of these services
are not really available everywhere in the world.
Like for example, voicemail.
So in China, no one really has voicemail.
It's very strange for an American because you think, well, if I'm not home, I want to
know why this person called.
But oftentimes, you just have to call back and find out.
And actually, I really think that voicemail service is a very good thing, especially if
you need to leave a message for someone.
You know, hey, we're at the restaurant.
Call me back when you have a chance.
But also, call waiting.
I really, really hate to call someone and have the busy tone.
And then you know that they're on the telephone, but you don't know when they will stop talking
on the phone.
This really annoys me too, especially when I call for delivery food from a restaurant.
It's like, please answer your phone.
But maybe someone's ordering a lot of food.
So actually, these services are very common in the United States.
And I'm sure there are even more services now.
I know that you can have a telephone number, for example, in another country, but it'll
ring in the United States.
Or you can connect your computer and your messaging service and all these things to
your phone.
So it's pretty technologically advanced.
But I'm very curious to know about you guys, our listeners, what kind of services for your
cell phone or for your landline do you have?
Do you have call forwarding or voicemail?
My name is Catherine and today we've got another episode in our series about giving a presentation.
Today we're going to talk about some key elements of the topic that we're talking about.
We're talking about a laptop computer.
So we're going to give some more details and characteristics about the computer and what
makes it so special.
So let's take a listen to what Mr. Ford has to say about what makes this company's computers
very special.
Now a key question you might ask yourself is what differentiates the new X420 line with
our previous models and also of course with some of our competitors.
In other words, what makes the X420 stand out from all the others?
This is a key question and it's something I'd like to explore in a little depth.
Firstly the X420 has a range of USPs that really make it a cut above the rest.
The first thing to mention is that the X420 is the first in a new generation of ultra-light
laptop computers.
It is only two pounds which compares very favorably with all our key competitors.
In terms of computer performance, for such a light machine it's very powerful.
Four gigabytes of RAM with an ultra-fast processor.
The most advanced video and sound cards on the market are installed with a crystal clear
15 inch LCD display.
The X420 really stands out as a next generation laptop.
Compared with our previous X540 range it really is in a league of its own.
Now if we go on to look at projected sales for the X420, we can see that sales revenue
for 2010 is expected to hit at least $20 million.
Now this is really a conservative estimate.
If our marketing campaign is successful, I'm confident that we could see a doubling of
this figure at the very least.
Now please bear in mind that this is only for the first year of production.
I'm certain that in the coming three years the X420 will actually overtake all our existing
products both in terms of sales and revenue.
Okay now let's move on to discuss our marketing concept and look more closely at our key competitors.
So we obviously heard a lot of vocab here, a lot of interesting things regarding the
Why don't we take a look at some of the words that he used on language takeaway.
So the first word that is pretty challenging is to differentiate.
It's a verb.
So Mr. Ford says, ask yourself what it is that differentiates this new computer line
with other ones.
So to differentiate, that means what makes it different, what is so special about it,
So you can ask a question like this.
What differentiates Apple computers from other computers?
So you're asking what makes it so different.
So then he rephrases the question and he says, well in other words, what makes the X420 stand
out from all the other computers?
All right, so this is a verbal phrase to stand out.
It's very similar to the one that we just mentioned to differentiate.
This means what makes this computer special?
Why is it unique?
So we're basically saying, why is this one more noticeable than the rest?
That's to stand out.
So maybe if everyone in the office is wearing white t-shirts today, but somebody comes in
wearing a red t-shirt, that person is going to stand out.
Actually, Marco, I think today that's you.
You're wearing a red t-shirt today, so you stand out.
So now as he continued to talk about the computer, he used this prefix before an adjective.
That was very interesting.
He said, this computer is ultra light.
And then he said it's ultra thin as well.
And that it has an ultra fast processor.
So ultra light, ultra fast, ultra thin.
This is a way of saying very, very.
So that's what he's saying.
He's saying it's very light, it's very thin.
So that's pretty much the structure.
You can add ultra before an adjective to emphasize that it's very something.
So when I think of cool actors, I think of James Dean.
He was ultra cool.
Ultra cool.
So you can do it with pretty much all adjectives, but you can't really exaggerate and use it
all the time.
Well, the key is to remember this is an exaggeration.
So yeah, you don't want to use it all the time.
But if you want to make sure you say that something is, if you want to emphasize that
something is special or that it's very, very something, you use the word ultra.
As you continue to talk about the characteristics of the laptop computer, he made reference
to the LCD display, the screen of the computer.
And he said that it's a crystal clear 15 inch LCD display.
What does he mean by crystal clear?
Well, crystal is a very special kind of glass, right?
And so it's expensive.
It's what some people have as their special glassware, you know, wine glasses and drinking
glasses.
And so crystal is very special because it's so clear to see through.
So transparent.
It's transparent.
Light goes through it.
You can see everything.
And so to say something is crystal clear is to say that it's very, very clear.
It's extremely clear.
It's as clear as crystal.
So basically the screen of this computer, you can see very, very well everything that's
on the screen, everything that's happening.
All the colors, all of the words.
And then moving away from the characteristics of the computer, he talked about projected
sales and he expected $20 million.
But he said that that is a very conservative estimate.
So an estimate is like a guess.
It's how much we think we will earn in a year or how much we think will happen.
But in this case, a conservative estimate means that it's a low estimate.
You know, we might make $20 million next year.
That's conservative.
Another estimate is we will make $40 million.
So that's not conservative.
So as you said, an estimate is we are more or less guessing how much it would be.
So what would be the opposite of a conservative estimate?
You could say a generous estimate.
That means you're giving a lot.
So a generous estimate is our revenues will be at around $60 million next year.
So I think we've taken in a lot.
our previous models?
And also, of course, with some of our competitors.
Firstly, the X420 has a range of USPs that really make it a cut above the rest.
It is only two pounds, which compares very favorably with all our key competitors.
In terms of computer performance, for such a light machine, it's very powerful.
15-inch LCD display.
Compared with our previous X540 range, it really is in a league of its own.
I'm certain that in the coming three years, the X420 will actually overtake all our existing
products, both in terms of sales and revenue.
Okay, now let's move on to discuss our marketing concept and look more closely at our key competitors.
Alright we're back with Fluency Builder.
Let's take a look at some key phrases now.
Alright, so our first phrase is a very important phrase when you're trying to differentiate
different products or things.
We say, this is really a cut above the rest.
Okay, so if something is a cut above the rest, it means that it's in a different category
from everyone else.
It's a lot better.
It is a lot better.
So you can say that we saw many, many applicants who wanted to come for a job at our company,
but John, he was a cut above the rest.
He was much better than all of the other candidates.
So a cut above the rest.
Now when we talked about this computer, he also made reference saying that it's in a
league of its own.
The computer is so powerful, it's so new, it's so fantastic that it's in a league of
its own.
Okay, so a league is like a category in this case.
We have good computers and we have great computers, but this computer is so good.
It's in an entirely new category.
It's mind blowing.
So we often say this with new things.
This is great, but nothing before it can compare.
They're just not as good.
So it's in a league of its own.
So you can make reference to products or also people, right?
A person can be in a league of his own.
So you know, there are a lot of good singers in the world, but this singer, he is in a
league of his own.
And to finish off Fluency Builder, towards the end of his dialogue, he said, to please
bear in mind that this is only the first year of production.
Okay, so we're talking about making these products.
You know, there's going to take time to make money and Mr. Ford would like us to bear
something in mind, to bear in mind this fact.
So to bear something in mind means to remember or to consider.
Okay, so he's asking us to please consider that it's only the first year of production,
so we can't really expect too much.
So I could talk about a number of different things.
I could say, you know, Marco, here's my report.
Please look over it.
Please bear in mind, this is only a first draft.
Okay, so I will make some edits, I will make some changes.
It's not perfect and I know that.
So please bear this in mind.
Okay, so you're kind of warning me, you're kind of letting me know to consider the fact
that it's not the final report and there might be some mistakes.
So to bear in mind that saying this is kind of like a warning that things are not perfect
yet but, you know, I still want your opinion.
It is only 2 pounds which compares very favorably with all our key competitors.
4 gigabytes of RAM with an ultra-fast processor, the most advanced video and sound cards on
the market are installed with a crystal clear 15-inch LCD display.
I'm certain that in the coming 3 years, the X420 will actually overtake all our existing
Ok, now let's move on to discuss our marketing concept and look more closely at our key competitors.
Now you've probably saw this acronym in the very first part of the dialogue when he said
that the X420 has a range of USPs that really make it a cut above the rest.
Alright, so this is a very special acronym for the business world and it stands for U
– Unique, S – Selling, and P – Point.
Unique Selling Point.
So as the name says, a unique selling point are characteristics that are unique to the
machine that allow it to be more competitive and to persuade people to buy it or to sell
itself.
So the new iPhone has a very interesting unique selling point.
It has two cameras, one on the front and one on the back.
So that really differentiates it from other phones on the market.
So that is what a USP is or a unique selling point.
As we said, it's an acronym in the business world, but next time that you find the opportunity
to use it, I'm sure it's going to sound amazing.
Yes, very professional.
USP, Unique Selling Point.
Alright so that's all the time we have.
Be sure to check out the next part of our series next week and of course if you have
any questions or comments, you're always welcome at EnglishPod.com.
We will see you there.
Enjoy your day.
My name is Catherine and today we've got an intermediate level lesson for you guys.
Now Marco, what are we talking about today?
Today we're going to try to buy a new car.
So we're going to the car dealer and we want to try and see if we can get a new car.
Okay, so lots of great vocabulary for buying that car.
Let's check out today's dialogue.
I am looking for a new car.
I have this old Ford Pinto that I would like to trade in.
You are in luck this month because all of our 2010 models are on sale.
It is a perfect time to buy a new car since it's the end of the year.
That is the Ford Focus, a very light but powerful vehicle.
It comes with dual side airbags, power steering and power windows, tinted windows and your
choice of either automatic or manual transmission.
Sounds like a good car.
How many miles to the gallon?
It is a very fuel efficient vehicle, giving you about 34 miles in the city and 40 on the
highway.
That is really convenient, especially now that fuel prices are so high.
What's under the hood?
A very powerful 2.5 liter turbocharged engine.
Trust me, this car is fast.
Now for the most difficult question.
What is the price tag for this lovely vehicle?
Very affordable, ma'am.
You can take it out of this lot today with zero down payment and no interest for the
first year.
You can test drive it now and we can sign the papers when we get back.
So now we're going to take a look at some of that vocab, especially the one that the
salesman used on Language Takeaway.
Alright so at the beginning of this dialogue we hear a lot of features that this car has.
The first one is trade in actually.
This is something that the man says when he goes to the car lot.
He says he has an old car.
He has a Ford Pinto and he wants to trade it in.
He wants to trade in his old car.
So this is something that you do in America or other places when you have a car already
but you want a new car.
And so the car lot, the place where you can buy the cars, they'll usually give you some
money for your old car and you can spend that money on your new car.
So basically you give them your old car plus some extra cash and then you can get a new
So that's basically what a trade in is.
And well as you said we had a lot of features on this car of the Ford Focus.
First of all, dual side airbags.
Okay so dual side is pretty simple.
It means that you have them on both sides.
The left and the right.
Dual means two.
But airbags are what's important in this phrase.
Airbags do what exactly Marco?
They protect you from hitting the front part of the car.
So maybe out of the steering wheel a bag will inflate if you crash so it will prevent you
from hitting the steering wheel and getting hurt.
It's like a big balloon and it protects you from damaging your body.
So it has two airbags for the passenger and for the driver.
Alright so after that we also heard about a number of things that are power.
Power steering, power windows.
So what does power steering do?
Power steering or also called assisted steering, it allows you to turn your car with less effort.
So maybe you've driven a car that didn't have power steering and so you really have to struggle
when you're turning the car especially if you're parking.
So you have to turn the wheel and turn it, turn it, turn it, turn it to turn.
But a power steering makes it more automatic.
So it's very easy to turn left or right.
And the same thing goes for power windows.
So maybe your car doesn't have electric windows.
So you have to do it manually with a little lever.
To turn it around and around and around.
But instead with power windows you just push a button and the window goes down or up.
And actually as well another feature for the windows we have tinted windows.
Now these are sometimes very popular.
I don't think I've ever had tinted windows on my car but tint means something is darker.
It's protected from the sun so tinted sunglasses for example can be very dark.
But tinted windows on a car are black.
They don't let much sunlight in so you don't get blinded by the sun or so other people
can't see you from outside.
Usually limousines you will see all limousines have tinted windows.
Politicians like to drive around in cars with tinted windows.
So a lot of features there.
A lot of vocab regarding the car.
Why don't we take a break.
Let's listen to the dialogue again.
Then we'll be back to talk some more.
That is the Ford Focus.
A very light but powerful vehicle.
It is a very fuel efficient vehicle giving you about 34 miles in the city and 40 on the
That is really convenient especially now that fuel prices are so high.
Very affordable ma'am.
We'll be right back.
So now let's start again with Language Takeaway.
Now let's take a look at part two.
So a very, very key phrase that we heard in the dialogue is automatic or sometimes manual
transmission.
So automatic transmission, manual transmission.
This is very important when we talk about cars.
So basically the car has a lot of gears and with an automatic transmission, the car will
basically change gears by itself.
So you start in park and you go to drive and you can go to reverse, park, drive, reverse.
This controls kind of the way the car moves.
But with a manual transmission, this means you have to do it by yourself using your hand.
So we have what gears?
We have one, two, three, four, and sometimes five.
So that's a manual transmission.
You have to change the gears manually.
It's a lot of work.
Now talking about another feature of the car, the client asked, well, how many miles to
the gallon does the car get?
And the salesman said that the car is very fuel efficient.
So this is a very important phrase right now as gas is very expensive in some parts of
the world and we're concerned about the environment, right?
So a fuel efficient car is a car that uses gas very well.
That means that I can go very, very far on one tank of gas.
I don't need to keep putting gas into my car.
So usually, for example, sports cars are not fuel efficient.
Hummers are not fuel efficient.
So fuel efficient is a key thing to look for these days.
But the customer also wanted to know what's under the hood.
So this phrase under the hood is very, very common when we're talking about cars.
The person said, what's under the hood?
And basically what we're saying is what is under the hood, which is that metal cover
on the front part of the car.
So you lift that in there, you can have access to the engine.
So basically that's the question.
What kind of an engine does this car have?
Oftentimes when your car stops or you have a problem, like it's broken, someone like
a mechanic will say, hey, let's have a look, let's look under the hood.
He wants to know, let's look at the engine so we can find the problem.
But in this case, it's not a problem.
He just wants to know what kind of a car is this.
Is it powerful or is it not so powerful?
So that's why we want to know what's under the hood.
And well, he goes on to explain all the features about the engine.
But then when we talk about the payment, how much the car costs, the salesman said, you
know what?
It's not expensive.
And on top of that, you can drive it out today with 0% down payment.
Down payments are payments that you often make with very, very big ticket items, a house,
a car, things like this.
So a down payment is what you have to pay to get the thing.
To begin using it, but not all of the payment, right?
So it's a percentage.
So if the car is $10,000 and the man says there's a 0% down payment, how much do I have
to pay Marco?
I don't pay anything today.
I pay in a month a little bit and then next month a little bit.
But if the payment is a 10% down payment, then I have to pay $1,000 today.
So as you said, it's usually about things that have a big price tag that are very expensive,
a house, a car, these types of things.
Usually you need to give a down payment.
That means that you're committing to buying it.
So a lot of interesting things going on in today's lesson.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back to talk some more.
All right, so buying a new car can always be tricky.
What do you prefer though, for example, in these types of features of the car?
For me, a car must be very fuel efficient because number one, cars are all bad for the
environment, so I want a car that's less bad for the environment.
But also, I really like manual transmission because number one, manual transmission is
more fuel efficient than automatic.
And also, I like to have more control when I'm driving.
I feel safer in a manual transition car because when you do manual, you actually pay more
attention to your driving.
You have to concentrate.
But automatic, you can think about other things and listen to the music.
So I think that that's a safety issue.
But what do you look for?
I know you're really, really into cars.
Yeah, I actually prefer manual transmissions as well, most importantly because of the way
that the car drives, especially a sports car.
It's definitely something for me.
It's nice to have a manual transmission.
But also, little nice features like in the exterior, like the rims, I like nice rims
or maybe a nice paint job.
Tinted windows, I'm not a very big fan of tinted windows.
But yeah, I don't know.
Some cars nowadays, even for, as you said, politicians, they even sell them bulletproof.
They have bulletproof glass.
Very, very secure.
Well, for me, I don't think I need bulletproof glass, but a good stereo is a good start.
You want to have good speakers and...
You can connect your iPod to the stereo now.
So a lot of great things with cars.
And actually, the model that they mentioned, the Ford Pinto, is a very popular but very
bad car.
It used to be...
It was cheap.
It was cheap, but it wasn't very good.
In the 1970s and 80s, this was a very common car.
And it's famous for being a small, cheap car.
It was a very cheap car.
So maybe you can come to our website, EnglishPod.com, and you can tell us if you have a car, what
was your first car?
And did you buy a new car or a used car?
Secondhand cars.
And of course, if you have any questions, we're always there on the website, EnglishPod.com.
Good drive.
My name is Katrin and today we've got a lesson for you that's about an unusual topic, something
we've never talked about here on EnglishPod.
As you know in EnglishPod, we like to talk about all sorts of topics, especially topics
that are real life topics.
So probably a lot of things that you won't find in your normal English notebooks or English
learning books.
So we want to tell you in advance, today's lesson is about drugs.
So if you're a younger user or you have, if you have kids, maybe they shouldn't listen
to today's lesson.
But you're going to learn a lot of the names for drugs and also how to turn down an offer
of drugs.
So let's check out today's dialogue and we'll be back in a moment to talk about the things
that you've heard.
Hey man, you want to buy some weed?
Some what?
Some weed, you know, pot, ganja, Mary Jane, some chronic.
Oh, uh, no thanks.
I also have blow if you prefer to do a few lines.
No, I'm okay, really.
Come on man, I even got dope and acid.
Try some.
Do you really have all of these drugs?
Where do you get them from?
I got my connections.
Just tell me what you want and I'll even give you an ounce for free.
Hmm, sounds good.
I want, yeah, I want you to put your hands behind your head.
You are under arrest.
So as Catherine mentioned, obviously everywhere in the world, maybe most likely you've been
offered drugs.
So we're not only going to talk about drugs, but we're also going to give you some vocab
in English, how to reject or turn down the offer of drugs.
And now what we're going to take a look at, let's start in language takeaway with some
of the names of these drugs in English.
Okay, so we're in language takeaway here and I want to warn you, some of these words are
slang.
That means they're not words from like a dictionary.
These are words people use when they're talking to each other in daily life or words that
you hear on the street.
You may even hear them a lot in movies as well.
Yes, movies and TV.
So this first one, weed, is something, there's even a TV show called Weeds.
That's right, that talks about this topic.
So weed is the street name or the most common name for the drug marijuana.
Marijuana is the drug name, but there are many, many, many other names in English that
you will hear.
So weed is one of them.
A weed is a kind of thing that grows like grass or a flower that you cut because you
don't want it.
It smells bad.
So the colloquial name for marijuana is weed and obviously the person that's being offered
these drugs doesn't understand what that means.
So he goes on and he gives a couple of different other street names for the same drug.
So the first one, so the next one is pot.
So he says pot or ganja or Mary Jane or even chronic.
So all of these are synonyms.
They mean exactly the same thing.
They all mean marijuana.
But then after that, the drug dealer offers other kinds of drugs.
He says blow.
So now we may know the verb to blow, right?
To blow air.
But in this case, it's a noun.
So he says, I have blow.
So he's offering this drug called blow.
And what is blow?
Blow is the street name for cocaine.
So there's a very famous movie called Blow and it was about selling cocaine.
So after he talks about having blow, he also says if you want to do a few lines.
And so this is what you'll commonly hear people saying how they do this drug.
So for example, you may know that many drugs, they're consumed in different ways.
For example, weed, people smoke it, right?
In this case, when we're talking about cocaine or blow, then that's why he refers to do a
few lines.
Because people breathe it in through their nose.
So it's a colloquial way of saying of how you say that, how you consume this drug.
So moving along, there's two more drugs that got mentioned in today's dialogue.
They're dope and acid.
Now dope can mean two different things.
Sometimes it means marijuana, like some of those other words we heard earlier, but sometimes
it also means a very, very serious drug called crack cocaine.
And that's something that people breathe in and it's very, very addictive.
And also the other word that we have there, or the other drug acid, you may know the word
acid is a very harmful substance.
Like for example, batteries, they have a certain type of acid that for example, will melt metal
or if it gets on your skin, it will burn you.
But acid when it's a drug means LSD.
And that is a drug that people take that makes them see things.
So it's called a hallucinogenic.
It makes you see crazy things.
And it was very, very popular in the 1970s.
So that's acid or LSD.
So we've taken a look at a lot of vocab here, specifically all the drugs.
Why don't we go back to our dialogue?
Let's take another listen and we'll be back to talk a little bit more.
Weed, you know, pot, ganja, Mary Jane, some chronic.
No, I'm okay.
Come on, man.
I even got dope and acid.
I want.
I want you to put your hands behind your head.
So now in fluency builder, we've got a couple of phrases for you about the other side of
things, how to say no to drugs and what you might hear from a police officer like, like
we hear in today's dialogue.
So let's take a look at these phrases in fluency builder.
So the first one we hear is no thanks.
So the guy says, um, no thanks.
He doesn't want the drugs.
So obviously you're being offered something that you don't like.
Let's take into consideration drugs or maybe somebody wants to offer you a drink or somebody
wants to take you on a date.
You can say, no thanks.
So, hey Marco, you want a drink?
I'm going to go right now.
It's only like two o'clock, but you know, we could go for a drink.
And now we also have another phrase.
So if a person insists, the person is continually insisting like, Oh, come on, come on, come
on, Marco.
Let's go for a drink.
I really want a drink.
Come with me.
And I, and you can say, no, I'm okay.
Really.
So it may sound confusing.
I am okay.
Because that would mean you're in good health.
I feel good.
But I am in this case, when you say to someone, no, I'm okay.
You're saying, no, I'm fine the way I am.
I don't, I don't really need to do anything.
I don't need it.
So I'm okay means I don't need it.
All right, and this is a great way to, to, to really say, listen, no, I don't want it.
So those are the two ways that we have in, in which you can say no, we're going to give
you a couple of more towards the end of the lesson, but let's take a look very quickly
at our next phrase.
When the police officer said you are under arrest.
So the man didn't know, the person didn't know this was a police officer.
And finally in the end he says, you are under arrest.
So in the movies, when they put the, uh, handcuffs on somebody, um, the, the preposition is under,
it's strange, but you just have to remember this as a phrase.
You're under arrest.
I am arresting you.
That means you are going to the police station with me.
You broke the law.
Or you can say, oh, uh, Tim is under arrest.
He's at the police station right now.
So we've taken a look at a couple of phrases and a couple of different things.
Why don't we take another short break?
Let's listen to our dialogue and we'll be back in a bit.
Weed.
You know, pot, ganja, Mary Jane, some chronic.
All right, so obviously a very serious topic, but at the same time, I think very necessary
because it may happen or you may hear it in a movie and it's part of the English language.
Now obviously we are not advocating or saying that drugs are good or anything.
We are saying we are giving you the tools so you know how to recognize when somebody
is offering you a drug and the way that you can say no.
So remember that these are things that you might hear when you're in a country like America
or England or Australia.
We hope that you don't have to worry about this, but if you do hear it or you hear it
in a movie, you will understand it.
But Marco, we had some other ways to say no to drugs, right?
To say no to something, to refuse.
So we heard no thanks and I'm okay.
But what are some other ways to say no?
Well, for example, if the person also persists or insists, you can say, no, I'm good.
I'm good.
So it doesn't really make sense because you're saying I'm good.
What does that exactly mean?
So like Marco, you want a cigarette?
No, I'm good.
So that's a way of saying no thanks.
Also, I'm cool.
Not saying like, I'm really cool.
It's like saying, no, I'm good.
I'm cool.
I'm thank you.
Or as well, you can also just say no thank you.
I think the most clear is no, I don't smoke or no, I don't do drugs.
That's the verb that we use when referring to drugs.
You do drugs.
You don't do drugs.
So he does drugs or don't do drugs.
You often hear this phrase.
So you can say, listen, no, no thank you.
I don't do drugs.
So as we said, this is all the kind of street slang or colloquial, very common ways of
referring to drugs in English.
So you can keep an eye out for that.
If you hear that in movies, now you know more or less what they're referring to.
And also, of course, if you have any questions, any comments or any suggestions, we are always
available on our website, EnglishPod.com.
We hope to see you guys there and until next time.
My name is Catherine and today's show is a continuation of our series about giving a
presentation in English.
So we're talking about a special line of computers here.
That's right and on this occasion we're going to compare two companies.
So we're going to try to tell everyone what the difference is between our company and
the competitors.
All right, so we learned a lot of great phrases and words for making comparisons in last week's
You're going to hear some of these again.
Let's listen to the dialogue.
Now of course with all this cutting edge technology there must be a catch, you might ask yourself.
I bet the retail price will be too much for most consumers you might say.
Well you'd be wrong.
Yes of course the X420 is aimed at the luxury market but if you compare the price of our
leading competitors the X420 represents incredible value for money.
At only 15,000 RMB it is far more affordable and far more attractive than almost every
leading brand and model.
So what differentiates us from our competitors?
Well if we compare Orange's luxury MP40 range then we can really highlight some of the differences.
Now of course Orange has an enviable record for producing revolutionary and top class
products and I must admit the MP40 is a breathtaking machine.
However for most consumers the MP40 is simply far too expensive to consider.
Compared with the X420 it is more expensive and there's no doubt that considering the
quality and workmanship that goes into the X420 we really win hands down on value for
Also if you compare the after sales service we offer I think we can proudly boast the
best customer service facilities in the whole laptop sector.
As opposed to most of our rivals we guarantee quality, we guarantee service and we guarantee
reliability.
The questions we must ask ourselves are what does the Alpha brand stand for and also how
can we set ourselves apart from our competitors?
The answer to both of these questions is the same my friends.
Alpha stands first and foremost for quality, for excellence and for service.
If we always stick to this philosophy then I'm confident that we will really be able
to expand our market share significantly.
Okay let me move on now to give you an idea of our marketing campaign for the X420.
Alright we're back so now let's take a look at these phrases on Language Takeaway.
Our first phrase comes from the very first sentence of today's dialogue.
We heard this phrase cutting edge technology.
Now Marco what does cutting edge mean?
Okay so as you see in the dialogue we're talking about technology and if technology is cutting
edge, it basically means it's new, it's very modern, it's the newest you can get.
It's the most advanced perhaps.
So what's an example of a current cutting edge technology?
Can you think of something?
So for example when we talk about mobile phones that can now connect to the internet, you
can send emails, they have many features even two cameras and touch sensitive screens.
This is a type of cutting edge technology.
Okay it's the most new technology, the newest.
So after that we heard another phrase, this is a bit different, this is more of a business
We have this retail price.
I bet the retail price will be too much.
So what is a retail price and how is it different from a regular price?
So the retail price is basically the amount of money that you pay for something at the
store.
So if I go to a store and I buy a computer for $1000, I know that the store, they bought
the computer for less money.
Otherwise they don't earn any money, it's a bad business.
So the retail price is higher than the actual price, the cost of production.
So retail price just basically means exactly what you said Marco, how much you would spend
on something, how much something costs in a store.
That's right, that's why they're called retail stores.
Now moving on, when we're discussing the X420, this computer, Mr. Ford says that it's aimed
at the luxury market.
That means that this company would like to sell the computer in the luxury market.
The luxury market is not the normal market.
It's the market for very expensive, very beautiful, very nice things.
Luxury items, luxury brands are very, very expensive.
So for example, a car such as a Mercedes Benz might be aimed at the luxury market, whereas
a car like a Honda Civic is aimed at maybe more of a middle class market.
Or in clothing, you could say Gucci is a luxury brand, whereas the Gap or something is a regular
consumer brand.
So this is what we talk about when we refer to a luxury market.
Now moving on to the description of the X420, Mr. Ford says that it's amazing quality and
that the workmanship is very, very good.
So workmanship is related to the word work.
And now workmanship means how something is made.
Generally when we talk about luxury goods, we expect the workmanship to be very, very
high quality.
So that means that the way that these things are made is the best.
It's not going to break in one day.
Usually I think when you talk about workmanship or luxury items like this, maybe part of it
is made by hand.
So this is what we talk about workmanship is how skilled that person is or how skilled
his hands are to make this great piece of luxury good.
So a very good example in the world of music is the Stradivarius violin.
The Stradivarius violins are very, very expensive because the workmanship is the best quality
in the history of world music.
So that's what we talk about workmanship.
You can apply it to many different things.
But moving on to our last word for language takeaway today, another nice business phrase
that we talk about specifically in sales is market share.
Now Marco, describe to me market share because I know what a market is.
It's where things are bought and sold.
But what is a share, market share?
So in this case, we're talking about computers.
So a market share is how much a company owns in the market or how much they sell in this
So for example, if we have a city of a thousand people and everyone there buys computers,
if we sell computers to 500 people of that city, that means we own a 50% market share.
So a market share is usually like a percentage, right?
It's a piece of this big pie.
So everyone is always fighting for more market share.
Whoever sells more has bigger market share.
So in the world of televisions, would you say that Sony has a large market share in
televisions?
Probably, although I think maybe Samsung has a bigger market share or LG.
See, this is the thing with market shares is that there are so many brands in a certain
industry that everyone has maybe a little piece of the pie or maybe one has a bigger
piece.
Well, that's it for Language Takeaway.
I hope you guys have learned something there.
We're going to be back in a moment with Fluency Builder.
Now of course, with all this cutting edge technology, there must be a catch, you might
ask yourself.
I bet the retail price will be too much for most consumers, you might say.
Well, you'd be wrong.
Yes, of course, the X420 is aimed at the luxury market.
But if you compare the price of our leading competitors, the X420 represents incredible
value for money.
At only 15,000 RMB, it is far more affordable and far more attractive than almost every
Well, if we compare Orange's luxury MP40 range, then we can really highlight some of the differences.
Now of course, Orange has an enviable record for producing revolutionary and top class
products and I must admit, the MP40 is a breathtaking machine.
However, for most consumers, the MP40 is simply far too expensive to consider.
Compared with the X420, it is more expensive and there's no doubt that considering the
quality and workmanship that goes into the X420, we really win hands down on value for
Also, if you compare the after sales service we offer, I think we can proudly boast the
As opposed to most of our rivals, we guarantee quality, we guarantee service and we guarantee
The questions we must ask ourselves are, what does the Alpha brand stand for and also, how
If we always stick to this philosophy, then I'm confident that we will really be able
Okay, let me move on now to give you an idea of our marketing campaign for the X420.
So now, let's take a look at Fluency Builder.
So the first phrase I would like to look at on Fluency Builder is very important for consumers.
That means people who buy things are very interested in this thing.
We call it value for money.
When Mr. Ford was talking about the X420, he said it represents incredible value for
money at only 15,000 RMB.
Okay, so 15,000 RMB sounds like a lot of money to me.
But he's saying that the value of the product is very good considering the price.
So what do you think the phrase value for money is?
As you said, the quality and how much you are getting for this product compared to how
much you're paying for it is very, very good.
So the idea is it should be more expensive.
But it's not.
So the value considering the price is actually very good.
So maybe I could say that this computer, this Apple computer, it's expensive.
It's $1,500.
But the value for money is great because I'll have this computer for five years.
Another computer might break and I have to buy a new one.
And also you can describe value for money as something good or bad.
For example, the same computer you can say doesn't represent good value for money.
So maybe you paid more than what you're actually getting.
There was a bad deal.
Well, the next phrase is an interesting one.
It's in this sentence where we talked about workmanship.
So Mr. Forbes described the X420 and he said it really wins hands down on value for money.
So the phrase that we're going to take a look at is hands down.
So what does he mean when he says that workmanship for the X420 wins hands down?
So this is a very spoken English phrase and it has nothing to do with your hands.
It means, well, I guess it could, hands down.
I'm not really sure what the literal meaning is.
But when we say it, we mean that something is without competition.
So there is no doubt in my mind.
This is absolutely the best in value for money.
And so maybe if I say, oh, well, there are two or three computers.
They're all nice.
Nothing is hands down.
But if I say, listen, this IBM computer is hands down the best on the market.
That means there's no other competition.
It is the best.
So you can't really argue with that.
It's the best, no arguments there.
No arguments, exactly.
Hands down.
He is hands down the best baseball player I've ever seen.
Okay, so now moving on to our next phrase.
When Mr. Ford again was talking about now the company, he said that the Alpha brand
is what does it stand for?
And he said that it stands first and foremost for quality.
Okay, so this means you think about first and foremost.
This means above everything else.
So Alpha means a lot of things.
They make good computers.
They're a strong company.
But first and foremost, it means quality.
It means that more important than any other thing that Alpha brand does, quality is the
most important.
Okay, so basically what we're saying the first thing and the most important thing is quality.
So that's what you mean when you say first and foremost.
So you can say for example, when I'm looking for a car, price is the first and foremost
important quality.
Okay, so we're talking about, you know, for Marco, the most important factor, the most
important part of buying a car is the price.
So moving on to our last phrase now, when Mr. Ford was ending this part of his speech,
he said that we always stick to this philosophy.
To stick to.
So stick is a verb and a noun, if you're familiar with the noun, it's different from what we're
talking about today.
To stick to, remember that as a phrase, to stick to something.
So to stick to means to continue doing it.
Okay, you're going to hear this a lot when you talk about sports or even in the office.
I could say, listen, Marco, I don't want you to quit.
I really want you to stick to this project.
Okay, so to continue doing, to not give up.
Don't give up, right.
So you could say this to a child also, you know, I know you want to quit playing soccer,
but I think you should stick to it.
That means to continue playing, not to quit.
So it's a very nice and maybe spoken English phrase, which means continue doing, to not
give up, to be persuasive.
Right, to stick to something.
I want to stick to it.
You should stick to this.
So a lot of phrases here.
I think we've taken a look at a lot of things here.
Maybe we should go back.
Let's review one last time the dialogue and we'll be back in a bit.
Now of course, with all this cutting edge technology, there must be a catch.
You might ask yourself, I bet the retail price will be too much for most consumers, you might
say.
And I must admit, the MP40 is a breathtaking machine.
As opposed to most of our rivals, we guarantee quality, we guarantee service, and we guarantee
The questions we must ask ourselves are, what does the Alpha brand stand for?
And also, how can we set ourselves apart from our competitors?
The answer to both of these questions is the same, my friends.
Alpha stands first and foremost for quality, for excellence, and for service.
Alright so that's all the time we have for today on this series.
Be sure to check out the next part next week where we're going to continue talking about
presentations and as you can see it's very business oriented but you can apply everything
that you learn to other situations as well.
Exactly, these phrases like hands down and to stick to, these aren't business phrases,
these are words you can use in business but I use these in my everyday life and I think
that with a little bit of practice you guys can sound really, really fluent in English
and these phrases are a good place to start.
So if you have any questions, any doubts or comments, you can visit our website EnglishPod.com
where we'll be there.
See you guys soon.
Okay that was great.
My name is Catherine and we've got a very sad dialogue today actually, Marco.
Today we have a very sad but interesting dialogue of something that happens all the time.
Maybe you have a girlfriend, maybe you had a boyfriend and you break up.
That means you are no longer boyfriend and girlfriend.
Hey, do you want to go out tonight?
No, I think I'll pass.
Mark broke up with me.
I feel awful.
Just last week you were talking about going on vacation together.
I don't know what I did wrong.
He said he needed some space to figure things out.
He said I didn't do anything wrong, that I'm a great person, just not the one for him.
That's so cliche.
Mark's not worth your time, Lydia.
You deserve so much better.
I know we had hit a rough patch, but I had hoped we could work it out next weekend when
we both had some time off.
I think he found someone else.
I had been getting suspicious because he had been spending a lot of time with a co-worker.
Forget about him.
There are many more fish in the sea.
Talk about being cliche, Maggie.
But you're right.
There's no use for me to sulk around.
Let's go out tonight.
So obviously this girl, Lydia, is very torn.
She's very sad because her boyfriend broke up with her.
She's crying the whole time this dialogue was going on.
But she did mention, her and her friend mentioned some interesting things.
Why don't we take a look at some of the words they used on Language Takeaway.
So first of all, her friend says, hey, do you want to go out tonight?
And what does Lydia say?
She says, no, I think I'll pass.
So she says, I think I'll pass.
I will pass.
So what does this verb mean, to pass?
So that means she is politely rejecting the offer or the invitation.
So no thanks.
That's basically what it means.
I won't go.
So, hey, Marco, you want to go see a movie in a couple hours?
I got homework to do.
So Marco will not come.
That means to decline an invitation.
So that's what it means to pass.
Now, as they continue to talk, they mention some of the problems with their boyfriend,
but Maggie said, ugh, that's so cliche.
So the boyfriend said something and Maggie thinks that what he said was very, very cliche.
So what is something that is cliche?
Cliche means something that is said or done very often.
It's almost like we would expect it.
So like, for example, what's a cliche phrase or a cliche action?
Well, in the dialogue, they were talking about ways of breaking up with people.
So for example, it's not you, it's me.
Let's break up.
So that's a cliche because it's a sentence, it's a phrase everyone always says.
It's not very, maybe not very honest.
Or like a movie cliche would be, you know, a couple, they're getting married, but their
parents, the parents of the bride, they're divorced.
They hate each other.
But then at the wedding, they get back together.
They're going to get married again.
That's a cliche story.
Because you've heard it before.
So something that's very common, something that you would expect, that's almost, that's
a cliche.
And a cliche, calling something a cliche is not a good thing.
It's usually a bad thing.
So Maggie goes on to say that, you know, this guy, Mark, her ex-boyfriend, he's not really
worth it.
But she says, you deserve so much better.
So to deserve is a verb and it means that you should receive something or you should
expect something.
So almost like, you know, in this case, you deserve better.
You have earned something better.
You're a good person.
You should receive a, you know, you should have a good boyfriend.
So when, when she says you deserve so much better, she's talking about deserving a better
guy, a better man.
Or for example, so Marco, you work so hard at school.
You're always doing your homework.
You really deserve good grades.
It means you should receive good grades.
Now, when Lydia said, yeah, you know what?
I just thought we were having some problems and we had hit a rough patch.
So she's talking about a rough patch.
A rough patch is actually something we talk about a lot in spoken English.
It's a way to describe a period of time, so maybe a week or a month when things are difficult,
you know, when maybe you argue with your boyfriend or girlfriend or when you're sad a lot or
when you're confused.
And so a period of time when you're angry or sad with your boyfriend or girlfriend,
that's a rough patch.
So maybe we can apply a rough patch to another situation like at work.
Maybe you're going through a rough patch at work.
That means I'm always busy.
I'm always tired.
I don't feel happy with my job.
I'm going through a rough patch.
So it's usually a temporary period of time where things are going bad.
It could be a week.
It could be a month.
It could be a year.
But it's a fixed amount of time.
It's not forever.
It's just a period.
And Lydia went on to say that, you know, she thought that maybe he was going out with someone
else and she was suspicious because he was spending a lot of time with some other girl.
Okay, so to be suspicious is to think that something is happening, but you don't know.
So for example, Marco, I think you've been taking the milk from the kitchen.
You are always drinking coffee and you always take milk in your coffee and there's no more
milk.
So I think it was you.
I'm being suspicious.
I'm thinking that maybe you did something bad or wrong.
But I'm guilty.
So maybe you're suspicious that someone is stealing the milk or maybe you suspect or
you're suspicious that your next door neighbor is maybe a car thief.
So you're very suspicious.
That means you're always thinking that this person or someone else is doing something
Okay, so a lot of words there talking about relationships, talking about cliches.
Let's listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back in a bit with Fluency Builder.
Now let's take a look at some of those phrases on Fluency Builder.
All right, so Marco, these are cliche phrases that we hear in English when people are breaking
There's some breaking up phrases, but there's also phrases that you might hear from your
friend after you have a breakup.
The first phrase we're going to look at, I think, is to need space.
He said he needed some space.
That's a cliche phrase, as we said, but it means that maybe her ex-boyfriend or Mark
needs more space, needs more time to be on his own or needs more time to do his own things.
When you're in a relationship, you have a boyfriend or a girlfriend, you're always together.
I need some space means I want to be alone.
I don't want to be with my boyfriend or girlfriend.
Sometimes this is just a small period.
Sometimes it's forever.
When somebody says that they need space, it means they need a little bit of more time
to be on their own or to be alone, as you said.
He had also given her another cliche phrase.
Mark said that she is not the one for him.
Okay, so the emphasis here is the one.
The one.
She's not the one for him.
In English, we often talk about the one.
This means the person that you will marry, the love of your life.
Your significant other, your other half.
You hope that you will marry the one.
Her boyfriend realized.
He said, listen, I like you, but you're not the one.
You're not the person that I will marry.
This is a phrase you often hear in breakups.
If you're single, maybe you don't have a boyfriend or you're not married, you might say that
you haven't found the one.
Or yeah, you have a lot of different boyfriends, but you still haven't found the one.
That means the one you will marry.
And now towards the end of the dialogue, Maggie also gives her some advice and said, you know
Okay, so this is a phrase that we often say when we're trying to make somebody feel better.
So the person is sad and we want to make them happy.
And so there are many more fish in the sea means that there are other men in the world.
Okay, you're sad.
You broke up.
But there are so many other men you could date.
So she's trying to say, hey, listen, look at this world.
There's so many different options.
So it's the similarity of how in the sea you have so many fish, in the world you have so
many men, so don't worry about it.
And you can say this about women too.
So for example, if I'm talking to my male friend or my brother and my brother just broke
up with his girlfriend, I can say, hey, listen, there are many more fish in the sea, many
other women.
You'll be okay.
And Lydia says, you know what?
I think you're right.
And there's really no use for me to sulk around.
So what does she mean to sulk around?
To sulk.
Now this is something that is very visual for me.
I see somebody sulking.
Their head is low.
They're sad.
Someone who is sulking often wears their sweatpants or their pajamas.
They don't make themselves look good.
To sulk around means to be in your house, to be sad, to watch TV and eat ice cream.
So stop sulking.
Don't look sad.
Be happy.
To sulk is to act sad and to be very down.
So it's kind of like you're very, it's kind of a combination of being lazy and also sad
at the same time because something bad happened to you.
And so we often say that in English, teenagers like to sulk.
You know, oh, I'm so angry at my parents.
And your parents will say, hey, stop sulking.
Go study.
So a lot of great phrases here.
I think we can go back.
Let's watch the dialogue one last time.
So talking about breakups, these cliche lines, and Maggie's obviously upset.
What other cliche lines or breakup phrases have you heard apart from, it's not you, it's
me, you're just not the one.
I need some space.
I think of you more like a friend.
There's a boyfriend or girlfriend, but then there's a friend.
So listen, I like you, but I think of you more like a friend.
I think that's a typical one.
Especially if you're asking someone out on a date, they might say that, oh, I really
like you, but I see you more as a friend than anything else.
So there's another one that's very popular.
Sometimes you hear people say, I'm just not ready for a relationship.
And that's also a cliche line.
Or I'm not ready to commit.
I'm not ready to commit.
And it's interesting because I think breaking up is one of the hardest things that people
can do.
And I think maybe this is why you just use one of these phrases that are so popular and
common because I guess it's kind of a good way to explain in very soft terms what you
want to say and to break up with someone.
And I think that sometimes people are afraid to make the other person sad.
And so they say these things that are very general, like it's not you, it's me.
But sometimes this makes the other person even more sad because they don't understand
why that they're breaking up.
What about breaking up over the telephone or breaking up with a letter?
Generally, at least in America, we say that breaking up over email or letter or phone
is not a good way to end a relationship.
It's very cold.
So the other person would be very angry if that happened.
You just want to see the person and say, listen, let's have a conversation.
Let's talk about this face to face.
So this is actually very interesting because as we say, maybe in other countries or in
other cultures, it's not really a negative thing to break up over the phone or maybe
send an email saying, you know what, I don't want to see you anymore.
So I'd be very curious to hear about you guys and your cultures and what happens when people
break up where you live.
And of course, we hope that you haven't had any very bad breakup experiences.
But if you're comfortable sharing, we'd like to hear about your culture and your background.
My name is Catherine and today we have an advanced level lesson for you. This one's a bit difficult. It's all about science.
That's right. Today we're going to talk about physics, specifically about, well you know, things like Stephen Hawking and wormholes, black holes and general theory of relativity and all that good stuff.
Right. So we're in class. We're learning about physics today and you're going to hear a lot of terms. Don't worry if you're not really sure what they mean. We'll be back in a moment to talk about them.
Good morning, everybody. Welcome to Physics 101. My name is Ed Brown and I will be your professor for the semester.
Since today is our first day, I wanted to give you an overview of what this course will look like, how you will be graded and what we will cover this semester.
Will we be focusing more on theoretical physics or experimental physics, professor?
This is an introductory course and my aim is to give you a broad overview of the field of physics.
The term physics encompasses many different areas of research and study.
And I hope this course will provide you with a conceptual understanding of physics, which will prove useful whether or not you choose to further your study in the field.
We will begin the course by looking at the fundamental concepts of physics.
Then by the middle of the semester, we will begin exploring the more theoretical side of physics.
It is essential that you first have a firm grasp of the fundamentals so that you can better understand the theoretical concepts when we get to them.
Will we learn about black holes, wormholes and string theory?
We will learn about the general theory of relativity, including black holes.
We will also explore the developing theories in quantum mechanics, such as string theory.
We will discuss some hypothetical features of space-time, like wormholes.
We will also explore some of the more influential developments in the field of thermodynamics, electromagnetism and nuclear physics, all of which have had significant impacts on modern life.
Now I am going to have the TAs pass out the syllabus for this class, so you can see how this course will be graded.
Oh man, looks like this isn't going to be the easy A I thought it would be.
Alright, we're back. So obviously we are in a class, as you said, and the professor is pretty much introducing the course and what's going to happen during the semester.
That's right. So he's talking about the different kinds of physics or the different elements of physics that will be a part of this course.
And there's a very eager student, he's very excited and he wants to know, are these interesting things going to be a part of the course?
And so when we start out, we talked about these two different fields of physics and I think maybe it would be helpful to start there with these two branches of this field.
That's right. He mentioned, this boy Matt said, if they're going to be focusing more on theoretical physics or experimental physics.
Now, theoretical physics and experimental physics are what we call two different branches of physics. That means they're both physics.
But people who do them have different methods and maybe focus on different things.
Theoretical comes from the word theory. Right.
So I have a theory about something and I'm going to think about whether or not it's possible and maybe there's some math involved.
But with experimental physics, the key word here is experiment, experimental.
That means we actually build experiments to test our theories.
That's right. So I guess theoretical physics, we can just have theories about how things happen or explain them, but we can't really prove them.
We can just have theories around them. Maybe we can try and prove them mathematically.
But experimental physics, you can actually, as you said, create an experiment to prove it or not.
That's right. And so those are the two main branches that the young man asks about.
But the professor says, you know, listen, we're going to be talking about the fundamental concepts of physics.
And so fundamental concepts are things that you often hear a professor talk about in your introductory class.
So introduction to mathematics or introduction to physics.
So fundamental concepts are the basics.
That's right. So the most important, but also the ones at the very bottom, the foundation.
Because you can learn about more difficult or more complicated things later.
But first, you have to have a foundation. So those are the fundamental concepts.
Right. And actually, after the professor said that, this other, this guy, Matt, went on to ask if they were going to learn about black holes, wormholes and string theory.
OK, so three very important parts of physics, but very, very complicated things.
The first two are related, right? So we've got astrophysics.
Astro means star. So astrophysics is the physics of things, bodies in space, planets, stars, things like that.
That's right. And so two concepts that we often talk about in astrophysics are black holes and wormholes.
That's right. So I think many of you have already heard this word, black hole.
The concept of it is basically a huge hole in space that just sucks up everything.
The gravitational force. So the pull of gravity is so strong that nothing can resist it.
Everything that comes close to a black hole, it's like in a drain.
Everything that comes close to it gets sucked in. No light can escape it.
That's right. And the other concept there is a wormhole.
So it's basically a sort of bending of space and time in which you can travel from one point to another a lot faster than going in a straight line.
Or from one time to another. So this is a very, very popular concept in science fiction movies and books.
For example, Star Trek, the most recent movie, the new movie Star Trek, there was a wormhole.
So one ship goes from the future and it comes into the past.
That's right. So it has to travel through this wormhole.
That's right. And actually, yeah, you say science fiction and obviously it's hard to prove it,
but this is one of the concepts that physicists think they can prove someday.
Someday. And this is why it's a part of theoretical physics.
That's right. And what about this other concept, string theory?
Okay, string theory is a theory about the way the world works, basically.
And it is a theory that actually competes with Einstein's view of the way the world works, right?
And string theory is about basically strings that are vibrating and that's the way the entire universe is kind of built.
Yeah, so basically at the subatomic level, usually you're supposed to have an atom,
but also supposedly these atoms are made up of strings that depending on the frequency at which they vibrate,
they can constitute different elements or different parts.
Different kinds of matter, right.
And so we're talking about the very, very, very, very, very, very, very smallest building blocks of the things in the world,
atoms and even quarks and joules and those things.
Exactly. So it's actually one of these new things that, well, people are talking about string theory.
It's kind of this new way of seeing the world and explaining the unexplainable
because there are so many things still in the world that we can't explain.
And people argue about this because obviously if you can't prove it, it's hard to say what is right and what is wrong.
Exactly. But actually one thing that was proven was Einstein's general theory of relativity.
So this is something we all learned back in high school or in college.
That's right. So basically the general theory of relativity is this idea that space and time are not fixed.
They're relative to each other.
So an example my teacher used to use is that when you travel very, very, very fast,
imagine going around a jet around the world counterclockwise, time slows down the faster you move.
Okay, so that proves that time and space are not fixed.
That's right. Actually, the general theory of relativity and specifically this aspect of speed and time
was proven with the example that you give with two atomic clocks.
You kept one on the ground, like, I don't know, in your house,
and you put one in an airplane that was traveling faster than the speed of sound.
And so after maybe an hour, the plane would land and the clocks would have not the same time anymore,
but they would be one, the clock that was in the airplane traveling faster would be maybe half a second off
or something very, very small. But you would see that time moves slower because your speed is faster.
All right. So that's the general theory. That's a part of the general theory of relativity.
It's a very important theory in the history of the world, but also in the history of physics.
Another thing, though, that the professor mentioned that is very important in physics these days is quantum mechanics.
Yes, this is actually a very interesting field of physics, but very hard to understand.
In my opinion, for me, it's very, very hard.
I find it very complex, too. Well, mechanics are the way things work, right?
And so quantum is at the atomic and subatomic level.
And so you're talking about basically the building blocks of the things in the universe.
And the people who are studying this or working on this, quantum mechanics, they don't like the Einsteinians.
They don't like the people who follow Einstein because these two theories, they don't actually go together very well.
You either have to believe one or you have to believe the other.
Well, the problem is that when you're talking at the macro level, the way things work and the way things move, like for example, you and me,
of course, there are formulas and there are everything that explains and that proves that things are the way they are.
But the problem is that in quantum mechanics at the subatomic level, it's so different.
Like, for example, electronics, the reason why we're able to have microprocessors and electronics is because,
for example, atoms can be in two places at the same time, which is impossible in our world.
It's like saying, you know, Catherine can be in two places at the exact same time.
And there's also this problem of observation that I've read about.
So there are some kinds of particles like electrons, for example, that if you're observing them, sometimes appear as waves.
But if you're observing them, sometimes appear to have mass.
Exactly like light.
Yeah. So you're talking about these things that seem to have a whole different set of rules from the rules that we have here walking around and eating food and going to work.
And so I think that's what's fascinating about physics, that, you know, you can break things down to the very smallest parts and they seem very different.
Or you can think about the stars and the moon and, you know, these planets and they have their own rules, too.
And so, you know, that's why physics is such a very, I think it's, it's, it's frustrating.
It's frustrating and it's exciting at the same time.
That's right. And actually some of the other fields that the professor said they were going to explore are the fields of thermodynamics, electromagnetism and even nuclear physics.
So very important branches, I think, of physics as well.
So when you're studying physics or science, you will definitely hear about the laws of thermodynamics.
Thermo means heat and dynamics means, you know, changing, changing state.
And electromagnetism, of course, is the combination of two words, electricity and magnetism.
You know, like magnets, you have the plus end and the minus end.
They attract or they repel.
Then finally, nuclear physics.
Nuclear physics is very important because it's, again, about the, about atoms and breaking down atoms and finding out what their parts are.
So you might have heard about the Hadron Super Collider.
This is like a big, it's like a big racetrack for atoms and they basically spin these atoms around the racetrack going faster and faster.
And then they put objects in their way so that they break.
They crash.
And they study what the pieces look like.
And what happens and how much energy is released.
It's all very interesting and it seems like things that are out of science fiction because it's not something mainstream that you hear about in the news very often.
Or that sometimes we understand, like obviously we all hear about the gossip magazines and who's dating who and all this other type of news.
But very rarely do we really pay attention to this type of information or news because it is a little bit complex to understand.
And it seems that, I think scientists are not the best writers for average people like you and me.
They write in their own language almost.
Oftentimes that's the case.
But I have to say I recently read Bill Bryson's book, A Short History of Nearly Everything, and it talks about the history of the world and us and the animals and plants in it.
And he talks about physics especially.
And I think that if you're interested in that, I don't know, I mean if you're an advanced English learner, it might be challenging.
It was challenging for me.
But it's definitely a good book to read to learn about some of these things.
Yeah, it's actually a very good idea.
And I don't know, many of us, I think many of us as well growing up, maybe we had a hard time with some of these exact sciences like chemistry or physics.
So we obviously find it hard to be interested in it.
But you know it's very different because it's not math and formulas.
You don't really have to know how to derive the formula or anything.
You just kind of have to understand the theory.
And it's very, very interesting I must say.
It is and it's fun because you can talk about, it's like philosophy sometimes, you can talk about if this were the case, then what would happen.
These hypothetical situations and I think that's maybe more in line with theoretical physics.
But it's really interesting to think about and to let your mind go into these very strange places.
So actually we are curious to know if you believe that maybe someday we will be able to travel in time.
Or do you believe that… Live on other planets or we'll have space travel as a part of our holiday making.
Yeah, they supposedly already are arranging tourism to the moon, right?
Yeah, they are. So I wonder if one day like in the fifth element we're going to have these cruises to space.
Yeah, that would be fun.
So let us know what your opinions are about this topic and also if you have any suggestions or questions, you can always visit us on our website englishpod.com.
We hope to see you there and until next time.
Music.
My name is Katherine and as you've noticed on our website, we have a number of lessons
about giving a presentation in English.
So this is one of those lessons.
Today we're talking about avoiding questions.
Today in part five of our presentation series, we're going to try and handle some questions
or avoid questions as Katherine said.
So why don't we jump into the dialogue.
Let's see what Mr. Ford is talking about now and we'll be back in a bit.
Now as we've already discussed, there's a huge untapped market out there, both in Asia,
in other developing markets and in the more mature markets for us to push into.
Now of course this represents an enormous challenge with enormous rewards for the winners.
But for any new product, we need a great marketing message and marketing campaign.
It needs to be directed and focused at our target consumer and needs to be pitched at
exactly the right level.
The question we must first address is of course, who is our target consumer and secondly, what
do they expect from the next generation alpha laptop?
Let's first of all tackle the first question.
Our target consumer for the X420 is the middle class white collar worker with an above average
income.
However, as we mentioned before, the total number of computer owners is expanding rapidly
and we need to broaden our audience for this product.
For example, the X420 is also ideally suited to the younger student sector who might use
laptops both for studying and gaming.
There's no doubt that...
Mr. Ford, if I could just interrupt a moment.
You say that the computer is suitable for students, but you don't think the price of
the X420 is just too much for most students?
Well that's a fair point.
If you don't mind, I'd like to tackle your question a little bit later in the Q&A section.
Is that okay?
Yes, sure.
Okay, so as I was saying, we have an exciting campaign planned for the X420.
Firstly we'll have a nationwide television campaign as well as advertising on radio and
also in many computer publications.
We also intend to...
I'm sorry to stop you Mr. Ford, but do you really think that a television campaign is
cost effective?
I mean, how much does that go into cost?
Well I don't have the figures to hand, but I'd be happy to discuss those figures with
you after the presentation.
Okay let me just go on to talk a little more about the exciting campaign we have in store.
All right we're back and now we can get started with Language Takeaway.
Okay so Marco, a lot of the conversation today was about markets and a target consumer.
So perhaps we should start talking a little bit about who Mr. Ford thinks this company's
consumers are.
He mentioned that the Alpha laptop could also be aimed at the middle class.
We have different classes in society, especially in America, where we talk about people who
are low income, they don't make very much money, or people who make a lot of money,
they're rich, they're on top.
That's the high class.
Yeah, high class.
But in the middle, we have the middle class.
And this is just average people.
They make money, they have a car.
They're not rich, but they're not poor.
Okay so they're in the middle.
So this is the middle class.
The computer is aimed at the middle class market, but he said that it's middle class
white collar worker.
Okay so I know this phrase exists in many other languages, but a white collar worker
in English means, refers to the color of the shirt that you wear.
So white collar workers usually work in offices.
So because they're usually wearing suits.
That's right, they have to wear nice clothes like suits and button down shirts.
But we sometimes also talk about blue collar workers.
Who are these guys?
Blue collar workers are usually people that are in trades, like for example a mechanic
or a plumber, because usually you see them wearing those blue shirts.
Yeah, uniforms.
They're usually people who work with their hands or who are not likely to work in a big
So usually maybe these people are not middle class, maybe they are lower class.
They can be both.
In America right now I think you can make quite a bit of money if you're a plumber or
construction worker.
But he also mentioned middle class white collar worker with an above average income.
Okay so an income is the amount of money that a person earns, usually in a year.
So we say $30,000 a year.
That's your annual income.
So when we talk about something that's average, that means it's normal.
But in this case we're not talking about something that's average.
It's above average.
Above average.
So if the average income of a person in America is $36,000 a year, an above average income
is $70,000 a year or $65,000 a year.
But for the middle class maybe that's different.
So in the middle class an average annual income is $70,000.
An above average income in the middle class is $120,000 a year.
So the phrase there above average, you're just referring to something that's more than
the normal.
So in this case more than the normal income for a middle class worker.
You can also say below average.
So a below average income is lower than most people earn.
And well continuing on talking about markets and the demographics, who were selling the
computer to, we also talked about our target consumer.
This is something that you often hear in meetings at work or in marketing departments.
A target is something you aim for.
It's something you want to hit or achieve.
And so a target consumer is the buyer, is a customer that you aim to have.
So maybe you have some customers that they're students and you have some customers that
they're very old, but your target consumer are the people that you really want to reach
out to.
In this case, the middle class white collar worker.
So in the case of our dialogue, our target consumer is a middle class white collar worker,
So a lot of marketing stuff here talking about the computer and what Mr. Ford was saying.
Let's take a pause.
Let's listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back with some phrases on how to defer
Now as we've already discussed, there's a huge untapped market out there, both in Asia
and other developing markets and in the more mature markets for us to push into.
The question we must first address is of course, who is our target consumer?
And secondly, what do they expect from the next generation alpha laptop?
Okay, let me just go on to talk a little more about the exciting campaign we have in store.
Alright we're back, so now let's take a look at those phrases that we mentioned on Fluency
So Marco, there was a phrase that I heard twice in today's dialogue that I think we
should talk about.
The verb is to tackle, so we heard to tackle a question.
Right, so when Mr. Ford says, I'll tackle that question a little bit later on, he's
talking about I'll answer the question or I'll talk about that question later on.
Right, but in this word to tackle, there's something kind of physical about it because
in football we say that when someone tries to hit the ball from someone else, it's a
slide tackle.
And so to tackle a question means to really jump into it and try and solve it and it's
you know maybe not an easy question.
So I'm going to tackle that later.
I'm going to tackle a challenge.
It's more than just to solve a problem or to answer a question.
So maybe you can also tackle a project, a difficult project.
That's right, so you know what, I'm going to give us two weeks to tackle this project
because it's a very difficult one.
And well actually when he was getting some questions from the audience members specifically
because he was kind of being interrupted, he was very polite about it and to kind of
defer the question he said, you know what, that's a fair point but I'll tackle that question
later on.
Okay, and so this is a really great phrase if you want to flatter someone, make them
feel good before you tell them that you're not going to answer their question.
Or maybe you disagree with someone so I could say, you know what Marco, chocolate cake is
the only cake in the entire world that people should eat.
Okay, and I could say something like that's a fair point but in my opinion vanilla cake
is better.
Alright, so see what Marco did?
He made me feel good.
He said, you know, fair point, that's a good idea but I disagree or but in the case of
today's dialogue but we'll talk about that later.
Right, and actually he did another smart thing in the way that he used his language skills
here when he was interrupted again he said, hey, you know what, I'd be happy to answer
your questions at a later time or in the Q&A session.
Okay, so this phrase, I'd be happy to.
I'd be happy to talk about that at a later time but right now I'm trying to explain something
Exactly, so these are two really, really key phrases for trying to in a nice way change
the topic or change the conversation.
So yeah, I guess you can say, yeah, I'd be happy to talk about that later on or I'll
tackle that question in a little bit or that's a fair point but we'll talk about it later
Okay, so a lot of great language there.
Why don't we take a last listen to our dialogue and review everything we've just learned.
Now as we've already discussed, there's a huge untapped market out there both in Asia,
Now of course this represents an enormous challenge with enormous rewards for the winners
but for any new product we need a great marketing message and marketing campaign.
The question we must first address is of course who is our target consumer and secondly what
There is no doubt that…
You say that the computer is suitable for students but you don't think the price of
We also intend to…
All right, so this was part five of our presentation series.
We're halfway done with it and so far we've seen a lot of interesting things and as you
notice it's an intermediate lesson so it is a little bit more challenging and a little
bit longer than your previous lessons.
That's right, these are longer and some of the phrases that you've learned, these words
are very difficult.
But as a reminder, some of the words repeat.
So for example in today's dialogue we heard a lot about developing markets and campaigns,
but we also heard about these last week in episode four.
So if you're confused or you want some extra practice, I would recommend listening to some
of the older lessons again just to review because you're going to hear a lot of these
words and phrases over and over again.
That's right and of course if you have any questions about this or any suggestions you
can also come to our website EnglishPod.com where we'll see everyone there.
That's right, so until next week, bye everyone.
My name is Catherine and today we have an intermediate level lesson for you.
It's kind of about cars, right?
So today we are taking our car to the mechanic and we're just going to check things and make
sure that our car is okay.
So we're going to learn a lot of really great words that have to do with cars and what happens
when cars break down.
Welcome to Al's Garage.
No problem at all.
I am taking a long road trip and I want to make sure my car is in good mechanical condition.
Very wise decision.
When was the last time you had a tune-up?
Not that long ago.
I think it was four months ago.
We usually recommend that you bring your car in every 5,000 kilometers.
I mean, what exactly do you do to a car that you need to check it so often?
First of all, we change the motor oil and oil filter.
If you don't do this, it can cause your engine to wear faster and that means you would probably
have to change the pistons and intake valves.
We also check your spark plugs, fuel filter, and other oil levels such as hydraulic fluid.
We also check the clutch and brakes to determine when you will need new ones.
Well, when you put it that way, it doesn't seem like a waste of time and money.
Trust me.
Regular tune-ups will keep your car running smoothly and avoid breakdowns.
So a very simple dialogue with the mechanic explaining to the client about why you need
to take care of your car.
So he mentioned a couple of very technical words in here.
Let's take a look at those on Language Takeaway.
The first phrase we're looking at today is tune-up.
So a tune-up is a thing, it's a noun, and it's something you do to check your car.
So you take your car for a tune-up or you get a tune-up.
Now this is for your car and this basically means to check that your car is okay and replace
any very easy things around the car.
So you don't normally get a tune-up when your car is broken.
You get a tune-up when your car is okay.
So the mechanic explained some of the things that you do when you get a tune-up.
So for example, he said that they change the motor oil.
Okay, so like it sounds, motor oil is oil for your motor.
And there are other kinds of oil as well and oil is oftentimes put into the car and then
sometimes it falls out.
And so what's that thing that catches the oil when it comes down?
It's called an oil pan.
So yes, as you said, there are different types of oils.
Cooking oil is obviously for cooking, for eating.
But motor oil is not for eating, it's for your motor.
But we also have to change the oil filter.
Now this is an important part that often gets mentioned at tune-ups.
So the word filter here, you have the verb to filter.
In this case, we also have a noun, it's called a filter.
So what this device does, it collects maybe dirt or rocks and dust or anything that you
don't want to be in your engine and specifically maybe if the oil is a little bit dirty.
Right, so an oil filter makes sure that the oil in your motor is not going to harm your
motor.
And we also have a couple of interesting things like the fuel filter.
Now how is this different from the oil filter?
It's pretty much the same thing.
The only difference is that this filter specifically cleans the gasoline in your car.
Okay, similar object.
After that, we have something very different.
These are spark plugs.
These are small little devices that, as the name says, create a spark.
This is how your engine goes.
This is how your car moves.
You have a spark and then everything starts running.
Spark plugs are actually quite important, right?
So a spark is a very quick flash of light that comes out.
It's not a long light.
It's just a spark.
So maybe when I strike a match or I use a lighter, there's a spark and that's what starts
the fire.
So a spark plug.
And now we also check the oil levels of our car and that's a very important thing as well.
So the oil level is something that you test with a long stick and you put it into the
engine, the oil container, and make sure that there is enough oil because if there's not
enough oil, you can have very serious car trouble.
So a lot of technical or mechanical things that we're taking a look at.
Why don't we go back, let's review all these words and we'll be back in a bit.
So now we've prepared three key phrases for you.
This first phrase is something that you often hear in the service industry.
So anytime you're going to a shop or maybe in this case, the mechanic, the mechanic will
say to you, what seems to be the problem?
So this is a question and we're saying, what is wrong with your car?
Or maybe if you go to the doctor, the doctor will say, what seems to be the problem?
So this means what's wrong with you?
Where do you have a problem?
This is a very, very common phrase.
So remember this one.
It just means what's going on?
What can I help you with?
It's very polite though, right?
It's better than saying what's wrong with you.
No, yeah.
You wouldn't want to say what's wrong with you.
That's very rude.
So what seems to be the problem is a much more polite way of saying things.
And well, the mechanic, after explaining everything, he said that, you know, doing all these things,
changing the filters will keep the car running smoothly.
So we're not talking about running like a marathon here.
We're talking about using your car.
And so when we turn a car on, we don't say that the car is operating.
Really, we say it's running.
So that means that it's in use, that I've turned the key and the motor is running.
But if it's running well, we say it's running smoothly.
So it's not having any problems.
So if you turn your car on and you hear your engine, it sounds very normal, no problems.
It's running smoothly.
If it's going, it's not running smoothly.
And obviously, if you don't take care of your car, what may happen is you may suffer a breakdown.
Remember this phrase as a phrase, because obviously things can break.
You know, I broke a glass.
But as far as cars are concerned, you say, you know, a car breaks down or I want to avoid
breakdowns.
And so this is something that happens when your car no longer works properly.
So you say, my car broke down yesterday.
And I had to call a friend to pick me up because you know, when your car breaks down, you can't
go anywhere.
You can't drive it anymore.
So to break down now, obviously, if you get a flat tire, that doesn't really mean that
your car broke down.
No, a flat tire is a bit different.
That means that you have to replace the tire.
But when your car breaks down, it means that something inside the car, like a piece of
it, yeah, the transmission or the spark plugs or the engine, some part of it isn't working
right and you have to get it fixed or replaced.
Okay, so a lot of interesting things talking about cars here.
Why don't we take a look at our dialogue again.
Let's listen to it and be back in a bit.
Okay, well, when you put it that way, it doesn't seem like a waste of time and money.
Okay, so talking about cars and tune-ups.
Now, when we go to the mechanic, you saw that he said, welcome to Al's Garage.
So a mechanic shop is usually called a garage.
And as you will know, a garage is a place where we store cars.
So sometimes people park their cars in the street.
But if you have a special place to protect your car from the rain or the snow, like a
room for your car, that's called a garage.
And this might be confusing, but a store, like you say, for a mechanic is a garage also
because there's a door that opens up the same way.
It opens up, not out.
And you pull the car inside and then the mechanic can fix the car.
And so I think that's why it's a garage.
There's room for many cars inside.
So you take, or if your car is at the mechanic shop, you would say, oh, my car is at the
garage.
It's getting fixed.
But it's a little bit different from the place where you would buy a car.
A place where you buy a car is a car lot, L-O-T, lot.
And that's a place where they have many, many cars outside, like in a big parking lot.
That's what we call a lot.
And you can pick a car and buy it and test it.
But a place where you fix a car, not special, that's called a garage or a repair shop.
Now, something that's very interesting and very common in places like the States and
Canada is that there are actually used car lots where you can see many cars that are
used and they're trying to sell.
But obviously in many other countries, it's not very common to see a used car lot.
Well, I think in America, people like to buy new cars and that means that every couple
of years, they sell their old car.
But that car is still good.
You can still use a car from 2005.
In fact, when I had a car, it was from 1991.
It was 16 years old at the time.
And so I could still drive it.
It was a good car.
And I think that as long as you can drive it, you can sell it.
This is actually another interesting thing about cars in general in places like this
is that there are so many cars.
And as you say, people are often buying new cars every year or trading their cars every
five years, let's say.
Used cars are very, very, very inexpensive.
I mean, you can get a car for like $500 sometimes.
And in a lot of cases, it doesn't make sense to buy a new car because it's going to be
less valuable in one day.
But a used car, as long as it doesn't have any problems, like you don't want to buy a
car that has faulty spark plugs or whatever.
But as long as it runs smoothly, I think that it's a very good investment to buy a used
So it's interesting because in many countries, used cars are actually not that much cheaper.
So why don't you come to our website, EnglishPod.com.
Let us know if taking your car to the mechanic is very expensive or buying a used car is
still relatively expensive.
Tip your car wastes to reuse an old car.
This is about fixing things.
So sometimes in our office or in our house, some small things may break like maybe the
door or the air conditioning.
So in this case, we need to call a special guy to come and fix it.
So let's listen to today's dialogue and we'll be back in a moment to talk about who this
guy is.
The air conditioning is not working.
We need to call a handyman before we start to fry in here.
Dan is on top of that.
I think they are also getting the handyman to fix the bathroom toilet that keeps clogging
That would be convenient.
They might as well ask him to fix the electrical wiring.
The circuit breakers keep going out all the time.
It's really annoying.
This office is falling apart.
Frank told me the other day that the gutters outside were clogged and that's why the parking
lot was flooded.
I was in ankle deep water trying to get to my car that day.
The handyman definitely has his work cut out for him.
So now let's take a look at some of those key words and phrases on Language Takeaway.
Language Takeaway Our first word today is the name of this
The person is called a handyman.
Okay, so that's a profession.
You are a handyman.
Now what exactly does a handyman do?
Well, a handyman fixes things.
He is usually a generalist.
He fixes things all over the house, not just the bathroom or the kitchen.
So he can just fix things that are a little bit broken.
But if, for example, your car needs a new radiator or it needs a new important part,
maybe you would take the car to someone who is more experienced with cars.
But in the case of a handyman, if anything is broken, he can generally fix it.
Okay, so as Catherine explained, basically a handyman just does any type or many types
of general work of things that may be broken around the house or the office.
We had a couple of examples of these in today's dialogue, didn't we?
What was that first one?
Kind of gross.
Yeah, well, he had to fix the air conditioning, but then he also had to fix the bathroom toilet
because it kept clogging up.
Okay, so a toilet gets clogged up.
To clog up.
So it means that something is blocking the way of the water being able to go out.
So the water doesn't go down.
And sometimes if the toilet is really clogged and someone tries to flush the toilet again,
the water comes onto the floor and it's very dirty and very gross.
So actually, maybe sometimes in the kitchen, pieces of food may fall into the sink and
it may clog up the sink.
Okay, so to clog up means to block or to get in the way of.
And apart from the toilets being clogged up, he also may have to take a look at the circuit
breakers.
All right, so this is not about water or about plumbing.
Circuit breakers have to do with electricity.
And in this case, that box in your apartment or near your apartment that controls the different
circuits.
So sometimes if the lights go out, you know that you have to check the circuit breaker
and make sure that the circuits are all working properly.
So the circuit breakers are kind of like a protection from too much electricity and that's
why they go out.
And now for our final word on language takeaway, something that also got clogged up at their
office, we're talking about the gutters.
All right, so many people's houses have gutters or sometimes an office building will have
gutters.
These are trays on the roof of a house or a building that will catch the water when
it rains.
Because you know, sometimes rainwater can be very, very heavy and it's dangerous on
your house, on the roof of your house because it can hurt the roof.
But if it comes into this gutter, into this little tray, then it will come down and fall
on the ground.
So these are a way to protect your roof.
But these often get clogged up with leaves and with garbage.
So they're like small little ways or little roads, if you want to call them, where the
water can go and escape and go into a specific place.
We have them on the sides of roads as well, many times.
So gutters that you find on the ground, sometimes you find them on the roof of a house, but
those are a little bit different.
The gutters on the ground are basically pathways for water to come down.
Because if there's no gutter, then all of the water is on the road and it can flood
very quickly.
And so this is a way for the water and even the garbage to go on the side of the road
and not be in the way of the cars.
You see them on highways and roads very often because you don't want the road filled with
So these gutters are a small path where all the water will fall into it and escape safely
from the highway.
So that's all the time we have for Language Takeaway.
Why don't we go back, have another listen to the dialogue and we'll be back soon with
Well, this first phrase is a phrase that I like to use and I do use it very often.
We heard that Dan is on top of that.
We need to call a handyman in here and he says, nope, Dan is on top of that.
To be on top of something, what does it mean?
When she says Dan is on top of that, she's basically saying Dan is taking care of this
or Dan is already calling the handyman to come and fix it.
You are aware of the problem and you're trying to solve it.
Okay, so don't worry.
You don't have to call the handyman.
Dan will call him.
So to be on top of something is to make sure that something is done.
So you could say, you know, Marco, I really, I hope you stay on top of that project because
it's very important.
Or don't worry, the report will be finished on time.
I am on top of that.
Now moving on to our next phrase, they were talking about all the problems that this office
has and the person said, well, they might as well ask the handyman to also fix the electrical
wiring.
So this phrase might as well is, it's kind of hard to understand I think sometimes.
Basically what the speaker is saying is that while he is doing this, he can also do something
So he's here.
He can fix many things.
He might as well also fix electrical wiring.
So taking advantage of the fact that you are already doing something or you are already
here, you can start doing something else as well.
Or maybe we could say this in a different context to like, you know, we're going to
order a pizza for lunch.
You know what, Marco might as well order two because there are so many people here.
So taking advantage of the fact that we are ordering pizza, we might as well get more
for everyone.
And for our last phrase, when they mentioned all the work that has to be done, they said
the handyman definitely has his work cut out for him.
So if someone has his work cut out for him, it means that he has a lot of work to do.
You can also say this to someone that you're talking to.
So Marco, Marco is writing a book.
I say, Hey Marco, that's a really long book you're writing.
It looks like you really have your work cut out for you.
Or maybe this project is really difficult.
I really have my work cut out.
So you're basically saying I have a very hard time ahead of me.
So that's all the phrases we have for you.
Why don't we have a listen to our dialogue one last time.
That's really inconvenient.
So a handyman is also commonly referred to as a jack of all trades.
So these are both kind of funny words.
First of all, handy as an adjective means useful or helpful.
So maybe a hammer is a handy tool.
It's a very handy tool or I find my iPhone has some very handy applications.
I can use the dictionary.
So a handyman is someone who's helpful.
He can do many things.
But a jack of all trades is very special because it means he is a person that can do basically
any job.
So sometimes in offices, people may have someone that they may refer to as a jack of all trades.
So he may fix the computers.
He also knows a little bit about marketing and does many odd and random things around
the office.
You could say my friend Paul, he's a jack of all trades.
He can fix a car.
He can cook.
He can fix a door or a window, but he can also sew.
So he's a jack of all trades.
He has many, many skills.
And talking about these skills, being a handyman is not a profession per se.
It's actually a trade.
And so we say this because it's something that you normally do with your hands and you
don't have to go to university to study it.
You maybe have an apprenticeship where you study by working.
And it's one of a few very, very important trades like being a plumber or an electrician.
But a handyman is more general.
Like we said, you can do many different things.
There are many trades out there.
Maybe you can come on the site and mention some of these that you may know.
Like for example, a very well known trade is a cobbler, a person that makes shoes.
Makes shoes or fixes shoes.
It's a very weird word though because shoes and cobbler don't seem to have much to do
with each other.
Well, many, many, many trades like this.
I know before they used to be blacksmiths.
So many types of trades.
And of course, if you have any other questions or doubts, you can visit our website EnglishPod.com.
My name is Catherine and today we have the continuation of our series about giving a
presentation.
Today it's part six and on this occasion we're going to address the audience.
So we're going to talk to the audience and explain a couple of things.
So let's take a listen to today's speech and we'll be back in a moment to talk about what's
The campaign that we have in store for the X420 is exciting, imaginative and revolutionary.
We have spent two years listening to and responding to feedback from customers and staff alike.
I'd like to say that without the assistance and support of each and every one of you,
we really could not have devised this campaign.
I'd like to take my hat off and really thank you all for the wonderful work you've done
so far, not only in helping support our marketing efforts, but also in continuing your commitment
to alpha computers.
There's no doubt in my mind that we have a great workforce here and together we can really
push alpha computers to a whole new level of success.
On the subject of the campaign, let me ask you all a question.
How do we define the perfect laptop?
Is it about affordability, quality, speed, reliability?
What do you look for in a consumer?
Well, I believe the answer lies in a combination of all of these elements.
Our campaign will really hammer home the point that the X420 is a state-of-the-art laptop
for all of your computing needs.
With our television campaign, we hope to really reach out to a huge audience.
We have a great ad campaign planned, focused on the fantastic USPs of the X420.
We've hired one of the best PR companies to work with us on the campaign and have already
completed three separate TV adverts, all focusing on one key feature of the X420.
I'm excited to say that today for the first time we will unveil to all of you here the
first of these advertisements.
All right, we're back and now let's take a look at five key words on Language Takeaway.
All right, so first up, Marco, we have a verb.
The verb is to devise.
That's right, so we devised a campaign.
Okay, so to devise in this case means to create or to come up with.
I think in many movies you will hear that someone will devise a plan to destroy the
world for example.
Right, or to devise a scheme.
So that's to create or to come up with a plan or come up with something.
And talking about the computers, he mentioned a couple of words that describe it, especially
the affordability of the laptop computer.
Okay, so yeah, there's this string of nouns that Mr. Ford thinks are very important relating
to the perfect laptop.
And in this case, affordability is the first one.
So something that is affordable is something that you can have the money to buy.
It's not too expensive.
That's the adjective affordable.
Affordability means whether or not something is expensive.
So if you think of the adjective affordable, the noun would be affordability.
So this is just the way that you can transform an adjective into a noun.
Right, so this is something that comes up a lot when we're talking about buying things.
For example, Marco, I could say, what do you look for when you're buying a car?
Right, so I can say affordability.
And you could also say our next one, which is reliability.
So if you look for a car, you are also looking for reliability.
And this comes from the adjective reliable.
All right, so something is reliable if you can depend on it.
It means, you know, in the case of a laptop or a car, it won't break easily.
Or a person can also be reliable.
You can trust that person to help you, for example.
Or I can trust that he'll never be late or never forget that we have an appointment.
Well, moving on to the next part of Mr. Ford's speech, he talked about the television campaign
and how he really hopes to reach out to a huge audience with this television advert.
All right, so the reason we've chosen this is because it's important to remember this
as a phrase to reach out to.
That means to connect with.
And I think your example of television is a really great one because television allows
people to reach out to many, many, many people.
Also, for example, with Internet, you are able to reach out to many people all over
So, to reach out to is to connect with.
And for our last word, when he was about to show everyone the TV advert, he said that
tonight for the first time we will unveil the first of these advertisements.
So, to unveil something is actually very exciting because to unveil something is to show it
for the very first time.
So, maybe you've seen in car shows where they have a car under a big white sheet.
And on that night, they're going to unveil the new model of the, I don't know, the Ford
So, that's what it means, to unveil, to take away this veil and show everyone.
To unveil.
So, a lot of good key words there.
Why don't we go back and listen to Mr. Ford again?
And when we return, we'll talk about Fluency Builder.
The campaign that we have in store for the X420 is exciting, imaginative, and revolutionary.
to Alpha Computers.
push Alpha Computers to a whole new level of success.
I'm excited to say that today for the first time, we will unveil to all of you here the
Alright we're back, so now let's take a look at these four key phrases we've picked out
for you today.
So in the beginning, Mr. Ford is talking about this exciting X420 and he says that, you know,
he would like to say that without the help of each and every one of you, the campaign
could not have been created.
So each and every one of you.
This is just a phrase where you emphasize that everyone helped you or that you are thanking
everyone.
So in a speech, you can say, I want to thank each and every one of you.
So I want to thank everyone is basically what you're saying.
And it's, it's interesting because it's kind of like you're saying every single person
was important.
So it's not just like, Hey guys, thank you.
It's like, no, thank you.
And you and you and you.
So each and every one of you, it really emphasizes that each person has helped.
And it's a really nice way of, for example, thanking someone saying, I want to thank each
and every one of you.
It sounds a lot more personal.
And he also used another very interesting phrase when he said, I'd like to take my hat
off and really thank you all for your wonderful work.
So this makes me think of a person actually back when people used to wear hats every day,
taking his hat off and maybe bowing.
This is something that used to be very polite because you know, when you meet someone or
you want to thank someone, you take your hat off as a sign of respect.
Well we don't wear hats anymore, so it seems a little funny, but we still say this.
I want to take my hat off to Marco.
That means I want to thank you.
So you're showing respect and you're also showing admiration maybe for someone.
So maybe if you meet somebody who saved someone's life, you would say, I really want to take
my hat off and thank you for the work that you've done.
You're impressed.
You respect that person who saved that life and you want to thank them for their good
deed.
Well, moving on, when he continued to talk about Alpha Computers and the marketing efforts,
he said, there's no doubt in my mind that we have a great workforce.
So another way to say this is, I definitely think we have a great workforce.
You know, maybe not.
It's not as interesting, right?
So we're making this more interesting by using a very colorful phrase and to say, there's
no doubt that you're a great workforce is good, but there's no doubt in my mind means
there's absolutely no way that I could doubt this.
I absolutely believe that you are the best workforce.
So, and you can use it with anything.
You can say, there's no doubt in my mind, IBM computers are the best computers out there,
Or there's no doubt in my mind that the Yankees will win the World Series next year.
So that's the way that you can use it.
You're basically telling people that you are very, very sure.
The very interesting one when he says, our campaign will really hammer home the point.
Okay, well, you can make a point.
You can say, listen, our computers are state of the art and they're the best for your needs.
But to hammer home the point means to really emphasize this one important point and to
say, listen, you will never forget this.
You will not forget what I'm going to say to you.
So you really emphasize it and restate it.
This is something that can be frustrating when you're a consumer, when you're watching
an advertisement because you hear them say, this is the best product.
You shouldn't buy other products.
This is the best product.
And they're hammering home the point.
They're repeating this message.
So it's a colloquial phrase that you can use to really, again, put your point across.
Why don't we take a break and let's listen to our dialogue again and we'll be back in
All right, so this was part six of our presentation series.
We still have four more lessons to go all about this, and they're going to get a little
bit more complicated, and we're going to continue talking.
The next couple of lessons are actually answering questions from the public and many things
Yeah, I think they're really useful because sometimes you prepare your presentation, you
feel really good about it, but those questions at the end can be scary because you don't
really know how to answer a question properly in English, or you don't know how to anticipate
a question that you might get from the crowd.
So those are things that we would like to talk about in the next couple of episodes.
That's right, and remember that these phrases and how you see him presenting this laptop
computer, you can still take a lot of the words, a lot of the vocab, a lot of the phrases
and kind of put it into your speech or your presentation.
You're going to sound great.
State of the art, save that one.
We hope you've enjoyed this lesson, and we will see you next time.
My name is Catherine and today we have an elementary level lesson in which we're going
to talk about small talk.
Today we're going to talk to an old friend and so we're going to give you some of the
words and phrases you need to talk about your past or talk about how you have been.
So let's listen to today's dialogue and we'll be back in a moment to discuss it.
I hate coming to high school reunions.
It'll be great, honey.
We will get to see your old classmates and catch up to see how they've been doing.
Oh look, there's Robert Matthews.
Rob.
Hey, Bill.
Likewise.
This is my wife, Dorothy.
So Bill, how have you been?
Can't complain.
We have two children who are in college and my business is going well.
Ah, you know me.
I'm a dedicated bachelor.
I never married, although I do have a beautiful daughter with Mary.
You remember her.
We were high school sweethearts.
It didn't really work out between us, but I really can't complain either.
Have you seen Frank?
I was hoping he would come tonight.
You didn't hear?
Frank passed away last year.
Nah, I'm just janking your chain.
I saw him last week.
I was hoping he would show up.
So now let's get started with our language takeaway.
The first phrase we have here in language takeaway is a very important one because it
is the setting for today's dialogue.
We are at a high school reunion.
So everyone knows what high school is, but a high school reunion is when you go back
to your high school for a party maybe five years or ten years after you graduate.
So then you meet all your old friends from high school.
You talk about how you have been and just meet up with everyone that maybe you haven't
seen in a very long time.
So a reunion usually happens every five years, ten years, or twenty years.
It can happen at different times, but this is important because you can have many different
kinds of reunions like a college reunion or a high school reunion.
I've even heard of some people who had an elementary school reunion.
Imagine seeing your classmates when you were maybe ten years old.
I couldn't imagine.
Alright so we're at a high school reunion and we are there because we're going to meet
our old classmates and to catch up and see how they have been.
Okay so this is exactly what you do at a reunion.
You catch up with people that you maybe lost touch with, to catch up means to find out
about what people have been doing since the last time you talked.
So maybe Marco and I were classmates in high school and we haven't talked in ten years.
I say, Marco, I want to catch up.
I want to learn about what you do, who you married, where you work, things like that.
Right, so when two people get together to catch up, maybe it doesn't even have to be
a very long time.
Maybe you haven't seen your friend for a week and so you want to get together, have a cup
of coffee and catch up and see how the relationship has been going or how it works so you want
to catch up.
So you can say this in a very simple way, let's catch up or it's been nice to catch
Alright, moving on to our next word.
This guy Bill meets up with Robert Matthews and they're saying, hey, wow, great to see
you and he answers by saying, likewise.
So it's good to see you, likewise.
That means it's good to see you too.
So you don't have to repeat everything that person just said.
For example, if I just meet someone new and I say it's a pleasure to meet you, you can
say?
I could say likewise.
Because I don't want to say it's a pleasure to meet you too.
That's so many words.
So likewise is a very short way to say all of those things.
So we were finding out about Robert Matthews and he says that, well, he is a dedicated
bachelor.
So a dedicated bachelor, what is a bachelor, Marco?
So a bachelor is a person who is not married, a person who is single.
A man.
A woman cannot be a bachelor.
So a bachelor is specifically a man and he's not married and we often have a stereotype,
that means we have an idea of what a bachelor lives like.
He has only beer in his refrigerator and he has many relationships and no wife.
So a dedicated bachelor is a person who is not married and doesn't really seem to want
to get married or any of this.
He wants to stay single.
And well, to finish off, this guy Robert lied a little bit to Bill saying that Frank had
passed away.
That's really mean, but this phrase to pass away is very important and something we should
So what does it mean to pass away?
It's another way of saying he died.
So it's nicer.
Yeah, it's a lot more subtle and nicer.
So instead of saying Frank died, you say Frank passed away.
So you could say, you know, last year my grandmother passed away.
That's a way of saying that my grandmother died last year, but again, it's a lot nicer
way to say that.
Yeah, because the word died can be a little bit too direct and too harsh.
So maybe saying my grandmother passed away last year, it's a nicer way of saying it.
So that's all the language takeaway you have.
Let's take a look at our dialogue again and we'll be back.
Hey Bill.
He told me he would show up.
Alright let's move on now to four key phrases on Fluency Builder.
So the focus of today's Fluency Builder is small talk.
These are phrases you can use when you're at a reunion or a dinner, especially with
people you don't know very well.
So let's jump in and look at this first phrase.
So he says, hey Bill, wow, great to see you.
So this is a nice little opening phrase saying, wow, I'm really excited to see you.
I'm really happy to see you.
It means I'm happy.
You say this at the beginning of a conversation.
And actually Bill responded by saying likewise.
So we talked about this.
He's saying, wow, great to see you too.
Then he continues by saying, it's been a long time.
This means that these two people, they have not seen each other in a very long time.
You can also say, it's been so long or it's been a long time.
That means it's been a long time since we last saw each other.
So Robert goes on to ask Bill.
He says, well, you know, how have you been?
How are things?
Bill answers by saying, can't complain.
So this is not grammatically correct.
Normally you need a subject.
I can't complain.
But when we're speaking in English and we're having a conversation like this, it's okay
to say just can't complain as a phrase.
So he's saying, how have you been?
Well, I can't complain.
That means nothing bad has happened.
Things are okay.
You're saying that things are good.
They're not fantastic, but they're not bad either.
So you can't really complain.
So it's just a phrase where very directly you can say, oh, can't complain.
Everything's great.
So you could even say this about other things.
Like, you know, I asked John how his job was and he said, can't complain.
It's not great, but it's not bad.
And obviously we saw how Robert lied to Bill by saying that their good friend, that their
good friend Frank had passed away.
And he said, are you serious?
No, I'm just yanking your chain.
Okay, so this might sound very strange to a lot of you because a chain is something
that doesn't really seem to fit in this conversation.
But yanking your chain, remember this as a phrase, it means I'm just joking.
I'm not serious.
I'm lying to you, I guess.
So, but how can you use this in another context?
I could say, you know what, Marco, I have something I have to tell you.
And I say what?
I'm leaving EnglishPod.
I quit.
Or no, I'm just kidding.
So you're kind of teasing someone when you do this, right?
I'm just yanking your chain.
I'm just lying to you.
I'm teasing you.
I'm making you believe something that isn't true.
So this is something you can use after you tell someone that you were just joking.
So I'm just yanking your chain.
I'm just joking with you.
You can't translate it directly or literally because it's not going to make sense.
So just remember this as a phrasal verb or a phrase in general.
Let's listen to our dialogue one last time and we'll be back to talk a little bit more.
Oh, look, there's Robert Matthews.
All right, so we're back and talking about high school reunions.
These are very popular in the United States, right?
They are very popular and I think people often have them every five, ten, fifteen, twenty
years, but most people don't go to the high school reunion until either ten or twenty
years after their high school graduation.
I think five years is very soon.
Ten years is nice because you haven't seen people, but twenty years is really, I think,
shocking because people can be completely different or they could be the same, but it's
been, you know, you were eighteen when you graduated high school.
Now you're thirty-eight years old.
You have this whole life that you've had and so I think it's much more interesting.
Yeah, it's very interesting and I guess people go to these things half because they do want
to maybe meet up with old friends that they haven't kept in touch with.
I think especially this was very popular before the whole internet revolution.
Now everyone's in touch on Facebook and emails and it's just so much easier to keep in touch,
but before you have to remember that it was basically by telephone or by mail, so actually
seeing a person ten years or catching up with them was very difficult back then.
Yeah, we all see photos and videos now of our classmates, so it's not quite as surprising
when we bump into them later, but I think it is still interesting though because at
least on my social networking websites there are a lot of people that I don't have connections
to, and so I look forward to my high school reunion when I get to see some of these people
and kind of find out what they've been doing for the past ten or fifteen years.
It's actually very interesting I guess when you see how your classmates have changed,
how maybe the one that used to be the nerd or maybe not very attractive all of a sudden
is really attractive and has like a supermodel as a wife or how these things work out.
Or the high school football captain is now kind of sad and fat.
So yeah, these are the types of surprises that people look forward to when they go to
high school reunions.
So a very interesting subject.
Let us know on our website EnglishPod.com if your high school and the place where you
live, do they have high school reunions or maybe even elementary school reunions.
Yeah let us know.
We hope to find out more about you guys' experiences and until next time.
My name is Katherine and today we have an elementary level lesson for you.
Today, we are getting a tattoo.
Okay, so a tattoo is a picture that you get on your body and it lasts forever.
So we're going to get a tattoo.
We're going to talk about this very popular form of art on your skin.
And so let's start with the dialogue.
Let's listen to it and we'll be back in a bit.
I have made up my mind.
I'm getting a tattoo.
Yeah, why not?
They're trendy and look great.
I want to get a dragon on my arm or maybe a tiger on my back.
Yeah, but it's something that you'll have forever.
They use indelible ink that can only be removed with laser treatment.
On top of all of that, I've heard it hurts a lot.
They use this machine with a needle that pokes your skin and inserts the ink.
Oh, I didn't know that.
I thought they just painted on your skin or something.
I think you should reconsider and do some more research about tattoos.
Also, find out where the nearest tattoo parlor is and make sure that you sterilize needles
and the place is hygienic.
Maybe I should just get a tongue piercing.
So now, let's take a look at five key words that we've picked out for you on Language
So the first phrase that we have here on Language Takeaway is indelible ink.
When you get a tattoo, they draw it on your skin with indelible ink.
Okay, well, ink is what you find in a pen.
So when you write, you write with ink.
And this is something that you can also paint with.
But in this case, we're talking about indelible ink.
So that means it's going to be permanent in your skin.
So something that is indelible means that you cannot delete or erase.
You can't take it away.
Okay, indelible ink.
Or sometimes people just say permanent ink.
So obviously, if you get a tattoo with indelible ink, if you want to get it removed, now you
can with laser treatment.
Okay, so laser treatment uses this very strong light to burn the ink out of your skin.
And it is something that you actually have to go and do many, many times to get the tattoo
removed.
I've also heard that it's very painful.
Yeah, I've heard that.
It hurts a lot, more than getting the tattoo.
So laser removal or laser treatment is something that you do when you want to take a tattoo
off your body.
I think they also use laser treatment to remove, maybe you have stains on your skin, like from
the sun, or even to remove hair, I heard.
Yeah, laser hair removal is something that many people do to take away some of the hair
on their bodies that they don't like.
So obviously, because tattoos are forever, this friend is asking this other person to
reconsider and do some more research about tattoos.
Well, to consider something means to think about it.
So to reconsider means to think about it again.
So if you're going to make a big decision, you should reconsider what you're going to
For example, I really want to have a hamburger for dinner, but maybe I should reconsider
because hamburgers aren't very healthy.
Maybe I should decide on a salad or something.
So to reconsider.
Now, obviously, when we have a tattoo done, when we get a tattoo, they use this little
machine that has a needle inside and it vibrates very, very fast and it kind of injects the
ink.
So the friend tells this person to make sure that when they use this machine, they use
sterilized needles.
So needles are those very small little things that go into your skin.
They hurt.
When you get a shot, the doctor will use a needle as well.
But a sterilized needle is a needle that is clean.
So something that is sterilized means clean.
But it's clean for medical use.
That means that maybe someone used alcohol or even fire to clean something.
So as you said, it needs to go through a process to be sterilized.
Like if you wash your dishes, they're not sterilized.
But if you are getting surgery on your body, the doctor is going to cut you open.
He will use sterilized tools.
And moving on to our last word, very much related to sterilized needles.
We're talking about something that is hygienic, to make sure that everything is hygienic when
you get a tattoo done.
Well, something that is hygienic is clean.
So if you have a baby, you want to make sure that the room that the baby is in is very
hygienic.
So you clean it very often.
Maybe you use some sterilizer to clean the different surfaces and things like that, because
babies can get sick easily.
So we've taken a look at five key words there.
We can review what we've just learned and we'll be back in a little bit with Fluency Builder.
So now let's take a look at some phrases on Fluency Builder.
We only have three phrases today, but the first one is a phrase you'll hear very, very
often in English.
It's I've made up my mind.
The dialogue starts by saying I've made up my mind.
I am getting a tattoo.
So what does it mean if you have made up your mind?
Well, it means that you have decided something.
I have decided to do something.
And the present tense of this phrase is to make up someone's mind.
So I make up my mind, you make up your mind, he makes up his mind.
Okay, so if you're choosing something or making a decision, when you finally make that decision,
that means that you have made up your mind.
Maybe we're shopping, Marco, and you're thinking, well, do I want this or do I want that?
Well, I'll say, come on, Marco, make up your mind.
It means just pick one.
Just decide.
Decide.
That's a very common phrase to make up your mind, to make a decision.
And well, as we continued on with the dialogue, the friend was saying how the tattoos are
forever and if you want to get it removed, you need to use laser treatment and ends this
part by saying on top of all that, I have heard it hurts a lot.
This means and even more.
So basically when you're trying to give reasons for something, maybe reasons for doing something
or reasons for not doing something, you give your reasons and at the end you say and on
top of all that.
So in addition or even more than that, this is the case.
So maybe we're talking about a car and you say, well, that car is not very reliable.
It uses a lot of fuel.
It's very uncomfortable inside.
And on top of that, it's expensive.
And on top of all that, it's ugly.
So you're kind of listing things and you're telling the person why you think something
is good or bad and then you end it by giving a final reason.
And on top of that.
And our last phrase, it's actually interesting because the place where you go and get a tattoo
is called a tattoo parlor.
It's a parlor.
Now, this is interesting because you might think that you would say a tattoo shop, but
we don't say this.
So think about a beauty salon or beauty parlor.
A parlor is a shop where we get our appearance changed.
In this case, a tattoo parlor is a special shop where you can get a tattoo or in the
case of this person, maybe get your ears pierced or your tongue pierced or your nose pierced.
So a tattoo parlor is a place to go for that.
So a lot of phrases there.
Let's review everything one last time and we'll be back to talk some more.
So talking about tattoos and also piercings, a very popular thing nowadays, especially
we didn't touch on the piercing aspect of the dialogue, to get your ears pierced or
to get your tongue pierced means that you're going to create a hole in your tongue so you
can put a ring or something in it.
So many women have their ears pierced.
This means that they can wear earrings and these are small holes in the bottom of your
ear.
But a lot of people nowadays like to get their nose pierced, so a hole in the side of the
nose or their tongues pierced.
You see people now get eyebrows pierced, their lips pierced, even below the lip, like I don't
know, near the chin, between the chin and the lip, they get this thing through it.
It's very interesting.
Also, I've seen belly buttons.
Belly buttons get pierced.
Like on your stomach.
And tattoos as well.
Tattoos are so popular now.
People get tattoos, arms, legs, your neck, face, everywhere now.
And there are special names for these in English.
For example, if you have a very big tattoo in your arm from your shoulder to your elbow,
that's called a sleeve tattoo because it looks like a permanent sleeve.
And actually, women get tattoos also, but for cosmetic reasons.
Many women get their eyebrows tattooed.
Yeah, I've seen this.
So, some women like to get these tattoos that look like makeup.
So maybe if you want your nice eyebrows all the time, you get these eyebrow tattoos or
if you want some dark lines under your eyes, like eyeliner, then you get the eyeliner tattoo.
Also, I've seen the lips, lip liner tattoo.
They do it around the lips to make it seem like you consistently have lip liner.
Well, I don't know if I do that because some days you just don't want to wear makeup.
But actually, tattoos in many cultures are frowned upon.
I know that until very recently in Japanese culture, tattoos were illegal because they
were sent to the Yakuza.
And in Jewish culture, you're not allowed to have a tattoo on your body.
And so, if you die with a tattoo, you cannot go to a Jewish graveyard.
I've also heard that in many countries, some positions, some job positions, you cannot
obtain if you have a tattoo.
Wow, Saul.
I don't know why that would influence it.
I think it's definitely culture to culture because it's very popular in America right
now to have tattoos.
But in China and Japan and East Asia, they're definitely frowned upon.
Even for example, in the armed forces in the United States, it's very popular for them
to have an American flag or something.
You see it all the time in movies.
But in other countries, you cannot join the armed forces if you have a tattoo.
Is having a tattoo okay in your culture or do people tend to think that it's a bad thing?
Or maybe you have a tattoo.
Do you have a tattoo or a piercing in your nose or your lip or your tongue?
My name is Catherine and today we have part 7 of our series all about giving a presentation
So obviously not every presentation is going to go perfectly.
Sometimes we do have some problems and on this occasion we're going to take a look at
tech problems and how to handle them.
So you're going to learn some great ways to discuss and to explain technical problems.
Let's take a listen to our dialogue.
Okay so if we could dim the lights Jonathan we can kick off with the first TV advert.
Please note that we're still in the early days with this advert so it might seem a bit
rough around the edges.
Okay so I just need to click this and the advert should pop up on the screen.
Sorry about this.
Bear with me a second.
There seems to be a problem with the projector.
Jonathan, could you lend a hand a second?
It looks like the projector is not recognizing the computer.
Let me check the connection a second.
Well the connection seems okay and the computer is running normally.
Sorry guys.
Obviously a problem with the system.
Let's just reboot and start over.
Let's see if this resolves the issue.
Right let's try again.
No still nothing Michael.
There might be a technical issue with the projector.
I think maybe the projector has overheated.
We might need to cool it down for 10 minutes and start again.
I'll call IT support to come over right now.
Unfortunately technical problems do crop up from time to time don't they?
But it's not a huge problem.
In the meantime while the IT guys get to work on that, I can talk a little bit more about
the advertising concept and what we are looking to achieve overall with this campaign.
Alright so we're back and now let's take a look at five keywords that we've picked out
for you on Language Takeaway.
Okay so we have some phrasal verbs today.
The first one is to kick off.
Mr. Ford started out by saying that we can kick off the first TV advert.
So this phrasal verb to kick off, what does it mean?
It means to start something.
So to kick it off means to start.
So I can say tonight we're kicking off the party at 8 o'clock.
Or let's kick off this new product with a big party.
So the phrasal verb to kick off.
You've probably also seen it in sports.
I think in soccer you have the kickoff which is the same thing.
That's right except it's a noun.
So be careful with that one.
The kickoff is the very beginning of the game.
In that same paragraph towards the end, we see Mr. Ford saying okay so I just need to
click this and the advert should pop up on the screen.
Pop.
I like this verb actually because it makes me think of that.
That when you're using a computer and you have these little windows or these little
icons, those little pictures, when something changes, they appear quickly.
And that means in computer talk, it means to pop up.
You obviously maybe heard of this already.
You have annoying pop-ups.
Maybe you visit a website and all of a sudden these new windows start to open.
They're all advertisements.
You buy this, buy this, buy this, buy this.
Those are pop-ups.
But also you can have a pop-up in a chat window for example.
And in this case, we also use it as a verb.
It should pop up.
So to pop up.
To appear.
All right very good.
Now obviously it didn't work.
Something was happening with the projector and Mr. Ford was going through maybe some
of the problems and he said let me check the connection a second.
Well the connection seems okay.
Okay connection is a very important noun especially when we're talking about technical things
like computers.
You can have an internet connection.
This means how you are able to use the internet.
But in this case we're talking about a projector which makes things bigger and a computer.
And so those things need to have a connection.
They need to have a cord or something that you plug into one and to the other so that
they can talk to each other.
So as you notice, we are using it as a noun.
They need to have, the computer and the projector needs to have a connection.
So you have the verb to connect but then you have the noun a connection.
All right and let's move on to another possible solution.
Mr. Ford suggests rebooting the system.
Okay so the verb here to reboot is another special computer word that means to turn off
and turn on again.
To restart.
So if I say reboot, I'm using the prefix there re which means a repetition or to do it again.
If I just say boot, can I say just I need to boot the computer?
I need to boot up the computer.
Okay, boot up.
So in this case, you would be talking about a computer that is off and you want to turn
it on.
So I would say, hey Marco, can you boot up the computer for me?
Now about using the word reboot or to boot up, it's usually for electronic things, electric
You wouldn't say to reboot your car or to boot up your car.
No, this is for computers specifically electronics.
For example, oh man, my iPhone just froze.
I need to reboot it.
All right and for our last phrasal verb for today on Language Takeaway, we have towards
the end of the dialogue, towards the end of the dialogue, Mr. Ford apologizes and says,
you know what, I'm sorry but technical problems do crop up sometimes.
Okay so this verb to crop up means to appear or to happen but not all the time.
So unexpectedly or occasionally.
So these things do crop up sometimes.
It means every once in a while this problem will happen.
So can I use this for a person?
If you say, oh you scared me, you cropped up on me.
No, it'd be creeped up on me.
Creeped up, very good.
So we can't confuse those two but they sound very similar.
They do sound similar but to crop up is usually a problem or an event or a thing that happens
and it happens not very often.
So I think we've taken a look at a lot of words here, specifically phrasal verbs.
So let's review those.
Let's listen to our dialogue again.
Okay so if we could dim the lights, Jonathan, we can kick off with the first TV advert.
Please note that we are still in the early days with this advert so it might seem a bit
Hmm, sorry about this.
Okay, sorry guys.
Right, let's try again.
No, still nothing, Michael.
Okay guys, unfortunately technical problems do crop up from time to time, don't they?
In the meantime, while the IT guys get to work on that, I can talk a little bit more
about the advertising concept and what we are looking to achieve overall with this campaign.
Alright we're back so now let's take a look at some phrases on Fluency Builder.
So this first phrase we have is very important, especially when we're using video or a projector
in a presentation.
We say, let's dim the lights.
So we have the verb to dim.
So to dim something is to make it darker.
But not turn it off completely.
It means maybe to lower the lights.
We could actually see this on a computer also when the screen is very, very bright.
We say, oh it's too bright.
I need you to dim it a little.
Make it a little bit darker.
So you can use this verb to dim to make it a little bit darker or to make it lower in
intensity.
Dim the color, dim the lights.
Now Mr. Ford when he was talking about the advert, he said, well it's new and it's not
ready yet completely.
So it might seem a bit rough around the edges.
This is a very, very popular phrase that means that something is incomplete.
Maybe it's not perfect yet.
It needs some work.
So if maybe you're designing a new website and it's maybe 50% done.
So you say the website is almost finished, but it's still rough around the edges.
We need to make some changes to fix it.
Rough around the edges is a phrase that is the opposite of the word polished.
Something is polished if it's perfect and ready to go.
And well, when the technical problem started, Mr. Ford was apologizing and said, hey, look,
And he also used this interesting phrase, bear with me.
So this is interesting because it's not the animal, the bear.
This is different.
It's more like, excuse me, please be patient.
I have to do something and you have to wait.
So this is a very, very polite way of asking some people or some person to wait for you.
To tolerate.
So both the animal bear and to bear with me are spelled the same way.
It looks exactly like the animal, but we're not talking about the animal.
No, we're asking someone to tolerate something that's annoying or frustrating.
For example, I'm trying to show you a file on my computer, Marco.
My computer's not working.
I say, please bear with me a second.
I have to reboot my computer.
I have to wait here.
Now, towards the end of the dialogue, when we talked about to crop up, the second part
of that, Mr. Ford said, unfortunately, technical problems do crop up from time to time.
So we already discussed cropped up.
What is time to time?
From time to time.
So that's a set phrase because we said already that you could also say sometimes.
So from time to time means every once in a while or occasionally.
So it's an adverbial phrase.
It's a way of telling people how often something happens, but in this case, it's not very common.
So for example, you can say, I like to go to the movies from time to time.
So maybe once or twice a month, you like to go to the movies.
But what if I come to work every day?
Do I come to work from time to time?
So from time to time is rarely or occasionally, not very often.
So now let's listen to our dialogue one last time and review everything we've just learned.
So if we could dim the lights, Jonathan, we can kick off with the first TV advert.
Please note that we're still in the early days with this advert, so it might seem a
bit rough around the edges.
So I just need to click this and the advert should pop up on the screen.
Well, the connection seems okay and the computer is running normally.
Sorry, guys.
Let's try again.
Unfortunately, technical problems do crop up from time to time, don't they?
about the advertising concept and what we're looking to achieve overall with this campaign.
So this was part seven of our presentation series.
And actually, these type of problems occur very, very often, specifically with the laptop
and the projector.
And sometimes it doesn't work.
It doesn't recognize it.
And so this is a nice way of handling it.
This is.
And we hope that these are phrases that you can use in your daily life as well.
Maybe you're working with your colleagues and you're having some technical problems.
Or if you're having a problem and someone gives you instructions for how to solve that
Like, I often get this from my technical team.
I say, listen, I have a problem.
And they say, hey, just reboot your computer and it will be okay.
So these are very, very common issues that I think that you can learn how to describe
in English with today's lesson.
And of course, if you guys have any questions or any doubts about this or any of our lessons,
please come to our website EnglishPod.com.
On the lessons page, you can leave your comments and questions.
And we'll see you guys next time.
영 studaos improve election sagas
My name is Catherine and today we have a very romantic dialogue for you.
Today we are at a shop and we are buying jewelry.
So of course there are many different types of jewelry and stones.
So we're going to take a look at all that great stuff.
Let's jump into our dialogue and see what's going on.
Good afternoon sir.
Is there anything I can help you with today?
I'm looking for a nice gift to give my girlfriend.
Our fifth anniversary is next Friday.
Well I would be happy to assist you in choosing the perfect gift for her.
Is there anything in particular that you have in mind?
I'm completely at a loss.
Well you can give her a set of pearl earrings or this beautiful heart shaped pendant.
What is her favorite gemstone?
That purple one.
I've never bought jewelry for anyone and I'm kind of nervous.
We specialize in providing our customers a relaxed, pressure free shopping environment.
That stone is an amethyst.
We have a range of beautiful amethyst pieces.
Take a look at this bracelet.
It's 18 karat rose gold studded with amethyst and blue topaz.
It's a great statement piece.
That's really pretty.
Jess would love that.
But I was thinking of something a little more delicate.
Perhaps a necklace?
We have this beautiful platinum pendant or you could also get her a locket.
You could also get her a timepiece.
It's both glamorous and functional.
If you tell me a little more about your girlfriend, maybe I can help you find something for her.
Jess?
Well, she's very smart.
She has a great sense of humor.
She's very feminine.
Perhaps you could give her a ring.
Well, actually I was thinking about asking Jess to marry me.
I've just been so nervous.
Well, sir, I believe your fifth anniversary is a great time to propose.
Okay, I've decided.
I'm going to pop the question.
Fabulous.
We should look at engagement rings then.
Now that's a whole other section.
In Language Takeaway, we have a lot of jewelry words and terms for you.
So let's take a look at some of these.
The first one I want to talk about, Marco, is pearl earrings.
The sales assistant offered a set of pearl earrings.
So we have earrings that you wear on your ears, right?
Usually girls.
But what about pearl?
Pearls are a kind of decoration that come from inside an animal.
The clam is a sea animal that opens up and inside there might be a little pearl.
It's usually a white or pink, very, very pretty object.
And we sometimes put them in earrings or on a necklace.
So a set of pearl earrings are earrings that have this little rock or this little marble
looking thing on it.
And well, he also offered a beautiful heart-shaped pendant.
A pendant is a kind of necklace.
And basically a pendant is something that hangs down.
So in this case, it's a necklace that might have something on the bottom that hangs down
like in the shape of a heart.
So that's what heart-shaped means.
It means that it has the shape of a heart.
Like for example, you can have a heart-shaped cake.
You can also have a heart-shaped face.
And of course the pendant is a little thing that hangs from the necklace.
Now maybe some pendants can also have a gemstone and that's our next word.
So a gemstone is not just a normal stone.
It's a beautiful, normally expensive stone.
And we often have gemstones that relate to a person's birthday.
So these come in many different colors and types.
The two that we heard about in today's dialogue are purple and blue.
The purple stone that you're talking about is the one that the shop assistant suggested,
which is amethyst.
Amethyst is a purple stone.
It's really, really pretty and it's sometimes light, sometimes a little bit darker.
Depends on the one that you're looking at.
But amethyst is a little bit, it's a little bit difficult to say, but it's a kind of gemstone.
The other one we heard about is called topaz.
A topaz.
And this one is blue.
So I guess they all look very much like diamonds, but they are different colors.
So topaz looks like a blue diamond kind of.
And ruby is red.
I think there's a black one that's called onyx.
Onyx is black.
So many different types of gemstones.
And as Catherine said, usually each month has a specific gemstone.
So that's considered your gemstone if you were born on that month.
Moving on to our next word, we have another type of jewelry that usually hangs from a
necklace just like a pendant.
But on this occasion, it's a locket.
A locket is something that usually women will wear around their necks.
Now this is like a pendant, but it opens.
So it's something that can open up.
And sometimes people have photographs inside.
Many times they're shaped like a heart or a book.
And inside you can see a picture or a note, something very personal.
So it's very similar to a pendant, but as you said, it opens up.
People have pendants and inside they have a nice picture of someone.
So that's a locket.
I think we've taken a look at a lot of vocab related to jewelry here.
Let's review this dialogue and we'll be back in a bit.
Good afternoon, sir.
Yeah, I'm looking for a nice gift to give my girlfriend.
Well, I would be happy to assist you in choosing the perfect gift for her.
Well, you can give her a set of pearl earrings or this beautiful heart shaped pendant.
We specialize in providing our customers a relaxed, pressure-free shopping environment.
But I was thinking of something a little more delicate, perhaps a necklace?
She's a great sense of humor.
Well, actually, I was thinking about asking Jess to marry me.
Now, that's a whole other section.
So the first phrase in Fluency Builder today comes from the beginning of our dialogue where
Mark says to the shop assistant, listen, I'm completely at a loss.
So what does he mean when he told the shopkeeper, I'm completely at a loss?
At a loss means I have no idea.
I'm really confused.
All right, I need help.
So if a teacher asks you a question and you don't know the answer, you can say, I'm sorry,
I'm at a loss.
Or when I see someone and they say, hi, how you doing?
They say, oh, I'm so embarrassed.
I'm really at a loss.
I don't remember your name.
So I'm at a loss.
Now when Mark was describing his girlfriend, Jess, he said, well, she's very smart and
has a great sense of humor.
So sense of humor is a characteristic that we give to people.
So he has no sense of humor or she has a great sense of humor.
And this means that this person likes to tell jokes and is funny and enjoys a good time
really.
So does it mean that this person is not really that serious or always angry or unhappy?
No, not an overly serious person.
It generally means that the person is good at telling jokes and makes you laugh.
So Jess has a good sense of humor and because of all these things and they've been together
for five years, Mark says, okay, I've decided I'm going to pop the question.
Okay, this might sound very strange because you think, well, pop the question.
What is the question?
Well, in English, the phrase pop the question has a very special meaning.
Means to ask someone to marry you.
So if I say I'm going to pop the question, that means I'm going to ask someone to marry
Or you could say he popped the question last night.
We're engaged.
So that means?
He asked me to marry him.
So it's a phrase to pop the question.
So whenever you use it together, you're talking about asking someone to marry you.
Um, yeah, I'm looking for a nice gift to give my girlfriend.
Well, you can give her a set of pearl earrings or this beautiful heart-shaped pendant.
It's 18-karat rose gold studded with amethyst and blue topaz.
So talking about jewelry and all of these gemstones, we also took a look at different
metal types.
We talked about gold, which is I think one of the most popular types of metals.
It's kind of like a yellow color.
Now, when we talk about gold, we talk about 14 karat, 18 karat, 24 karat, stuff like this.
So the karat, usually it's abbreviated like a K, 18K, 14K.
It means how pure the gold is.
And actually, they also use it in diamonds.
They talk about a diamond that's one karat or two karats.
So in diamonds, it has a different meaning.
It actually means how much the diamond weighs.
So some engagement rings are half a karat or a karat.
And the really, really, really big ones are like two karats, and those are very expensive.
And we also saw another metal here, platinum, which is a very nice metal.
It looks like silver, but it's stronger.
It's much stronger, so you can hit something and it won't leave an impression.
It won't change the look of the metal.
And this is very popular right now for wedding bands.
You know those rings that men and women get after they're married?
Many people like to get this silvery-looking platinum ring.
I've actually seen different types of metals that weren't mentioned in the dialogue, like
titanium rings.
Titanium is also a very strong metal.
I can't remember this metal, but it's used on spacecraft, and it's very, very strong,
stronger than titanium.
I don't know what it is.
And yeah, they also make rings out of it.
But another interesting thing is some people make their own rings, their wedding bands
or their wedding rings.
I've seen that.
It's a very nice thing to do, I think, because it's meaningful.
People like to do it together, and then they have these rings that are very special for
So a person that makes jewelry or makes rings is called a jeweler, right?
A jeweler, that's right.
So I have a friend who is a jeweler.
He makes beautiful rings and earrings.
So not only rings, a person that makes jewelry in general can be called a jeweler.
A very interesting topic, especially for the girls who always love to have rings and diamonds
and necklaces.
Or the boys.
I know some boys really like to get earrings or to have jewelry like a ring.
I've never really seen too many guys wearing necklaces, though.
A lot of guys wear cross necklaces, I've seen.
Or rings, not too many rings.
I don't think it's a big thing.
Wedding rings?
Wedding rings, yeah.
A lot of American guys wear rings.
Do you wear them?
Yeah, I think, well, not a lot, but some do.
So well, obviously it's popular all around and of course we are interested in hearing
from you guys.
So if you have any questions or any other suggestions about this lesson or anything,
you can always find us at EnglishPod.com.
Talk to you nuts.
And today we have a delicious lesson all about Chinese food for you.
Today we are ordering Chinese food.
Now for many of you listeners that are actually Chinese, you may not recognize these dishes
because we are talking about American Chinese food.
So long, long ago, people came over to America from mainly Hong Kong.
And so a lot of the food we have is kind of more like Hong Kong food.
Cantonese food.
But it's also very American.
So let's take a listen to today's dialogue and find out exactly what we're eating.
Hi, welcome to Happy Buddha.
Can I get you anything to drink?
Coke for me, please.
I'll have a Sprite.
Okay, I'll go get that for you.
Are there any questions with the menu?
Do you use MSG?
No ma'am, we are MSG free.
Oh man, I haven't had Chinese food in so long.
I want everything.
This place has the best sesame chicken.
Yeah, I've been craving Chinese for such a long time.
I used to get takeout all the time.
It's definitely been a while.
Let's start off with some crab Rangoon.
Oh yeah, that sounds good.
I think I'm going to get the sesame chicken with fried rice, a spring roll and egg drop
soup.
It's so tempting to order everything on the menu.
It all looks so appetizing.
I think I'll get general toast chicken, hot and sour soup, fried wontons and white rice.
Aren't you supposed to be on a diet?
You should at least get brown rice.
I hate brown rice and I'm so sick of eating healthy all the time.
I've been eating so much salad, I swear I've forgotten what meat tastes like.
There's no better remedy than some nice, greasy, calorie laden Chinese food.
I might even get an order of broccoli beef.
Oh gosh, I'm so hungry.
Let's call the waitress over.
So obviously everything seems so good.
Very typical American Chinese dishes and we have a lot of things that we can take a look
at so let's start with language takeaway.
In language takeaway today, we're going to be talking about some general food words,
words that you can use when you're ordering food.
So the first one we should talk about is this MSG.
Right, Andrea asks, do you use MSG?
So why is she asking this and what is MSG?
MSG is an ingredient in foods.
It's kind of like a condiment, something that you put on the food after the food has been
cooked and it makes the food taste better, brighter.
It intensifies the flavors a little bit.
Yeah, and it's kind of, it looks like salt or sugar.
It's on the tables usually at Chinese restaurants but a lot of people don't like MSG because
they don't think it's very safe for their bodies.
And so actually the waitress says that the food is MSG free, which means there's no MSG
Okay, so she says our food is MSG free, which is this chemical.
I think it's kind of like a chemical that you described.
That's right and a lot of people don't want it.
So you can ask, is this food MSG free?
You could also ask, is it fat free?
Is it salt free?
So this is a very helpful way of asking about what the ingredients are in a dish.
And actually Manny is talking about the food as well and he says, yeah, I've been craving
Chinese for such a long time.
Okay, so the verb here is to crave but he said he's been craving.
So he really has been wanting this food for a long time.
So if you say I'm craving Italian food, what does that mean?
That means I really want to eat Italian food.
You feel like having Italian food.
So I'm craving some kind of food.
I really want to eat it.
And he said that he used to get takeout all the time.
So he's obviously talking about Chinese food.
What does he mean by takeout?
Well, takeout is the opposite of sitting down in a restaurant and eating food.
Takeout is what you do when you want to go home and eat it.
So in many restaurants, you can order the food and you go and you pick up the food and
you bring it home.
Okay, so that's takeout.
So it's a noun.
You get takeout.
Right, but it's a little bit different from a different kind of takeout.
There's takeout where you order the food and you pick it up and you bring it home.
But there's also delivery and delivery is when you order the food and someone else brings
it to you.
So be careful with those two.
Moving forward, Manny kept talking about the food and said, wow, everything on the menu
looks so appetizing.
Okay, appetizing is a way to describe something.
In this case, we're describing food.
So that's normally how we use the word appetizing.
So appetizing basically means that you're excited about eating this food because it
looks like it will be good.
So what about the word appetizer?
Does this have anything to do with it?
I think appetizer is something that makes you want to eat more.
That's why it's at the beginning of a meal.
You have your appetizer before you have your main course.
But the word appetizing means that it's very appealing.
You really want to eat it.
It looks delicious.
And Andrea was worried because Manny is ordering so much food.
She asks, aren't you supposed to be on a diet?
Okay, so this is a phrase and I want to remind everyone to keep this phrase in mind.
You can diet, which is a verb, but in this case, you're on a diet.
I'm on a diet.
I'm trying to eat healthily.
I'm trying to watch the things that I put in my body.
So usually if you're on a diet, you don't eat really greasy, fatty, take out Chinese
food.
You eat salads and soups.
Okay, so you are on a diet.
Yes, he's on a diet or I was on a diet, but I stopped.
Alright, a lot of great appealing food.
Why don't we go and listen to our dialogue again and we'll be back with Language Takeaway
Part 2 where we're going to take a look at the specific American Chinese dishes.
I think I'm going to get the sesame chicken with fried rice, a spring roll, and egg drop
I think I'll get general toast chicken, hot and sour soup, fried wontons, and white rice.
I hate brown rice.
And I'm so sick of eating healthy all the time.
There's no better remedy than some nice, greasy, calorie-laden Chinese food.
So now let's take a look at those delicious American Chinese dishes on Language Takeaway
And so here we are with a number of delicious and very appetizing dishes.
These are things that you'll normally find in an American Chinese restaurant.
The first one is called crab rangoon.
Okay, so this doesn't sound very Chinese at all.
Now rangoon is actually a city in a country called Myanmar or Burma.
And crab rangoon is a special deep-fried dish that's like, it's like deep-fried dumplings,
but on the inside there's cream cheese and crab.
Crab meat.
So it's kind of, as you said, like a dumpling, but inside you have cream cheese and crab.
Now, they also talked about getting the sesame chicken with fried rice.
Okay, so sesame is a very common ingredient in cultures all over the world.
And sesame is a kind of seed.
But some people also use some sesame oil in their cooking.
And so these all come from these white, small seeds.
And sesame chicken is a kind of chicken that's cooked with sesame seeds.
And obviously we know what fried rice is.
You just take, it's just basically rice in a pan with sometimes a little bit of meat
and egg and just fry it all together.
But what about spring rolls?
I think these are one of the typical Chinese dishes that everyone knows.
And actually it's a Chinese dish as well.
I love spring rolls, although I've never gotten an American spring roll in China.
The spring rolls we're talking about here are basically wrappers, these like wonton
wrappers that are stuffed with meat and vegetables.
And they're rolled up so they look like a long roll and they're deep fried.
So okay, so spring rolls are, as you said, little rolls with meat and sometimes vegetable
inside.
Not really sure why they call it spring roll though.
I don't know either.
Maybe it has to do with the ingredients, like they're vegetables from the spring.
Now, another one that I actually really, really like is this egg drop soup.
This is delicious.
This is a very simple soup and when you're cooking it, you break an egg and the egg is
mixed into the soup.
So it looks like it's kind of got these yellow pieces floating, but it's a really nice simple
soup with egg.
Okay, and that's what it's called, egg drop soup.
Now you mentioned the wonton wrappers and they also mentioned fried wontons.
What are wontons?
Okay, wontons are also known as hundun in mainland China, but this is a special kind
of dumpling.
It's got a piece of dough basically that's flattened out and inside there's meat, maybe
some vegetables.
And sometimes you eat it in soup, but here we're talking about fried wontons, deep fried
wontons.
So you put them in the deep fryer and they're fried so that they're crunchy and the insides
are soft.
Actually, this is one of my favorite dishes.
The original one in China though, as you said, the hundun, because it's like in a soup.
And it's very simple, but you have like dumplings in a soup, but the fried ones are also very,
very good.
They are both delicious and this is making me very hungry.
So maybe we should listen to our dialogue again.
Let's start off with some crab rangoon.
As we mentioned, these dishes have a certain American influence to them.
They're not really spicy.
I think that's the main difference as well.
American Chinese food doesn't really have the intense garlic flavor nor is it spicy
like usual Chinese food.
I think that part of that is, like I said, due to the fact that a lot of the Chinese
Americans who first came over came from Hong Kong.
And so Hong Kong food is not as famous for its spiciness.
It's not like Sichuan food.
You will see a lot of sweet sauces like this general sauce chicken is a very, very sweet
sauce.
You'll also see a lot of soy sauce in American Chinese cooking.
And so these are flavors that are very, very strong and they're not the same as the Chinese
peppers and these spicy foods you get in China.
And actually there's one more dish that we didn't mention in the dialogue actually, but
is very famous all around the United States.
It's called chop suey.
Chop suey.
And many people have argued about where the name comes from.
But chop suey is just basically like everything chopped up and fried together, right?
It's like stir fried vegetables and meat.
And all put together in just a bowl.
Well, my favorite thing about the American Chinese food that we get is that we get it
in these little boxes.
They're very cute.
And you take them home and you open them up and every food has a box.
And then at the end, you also get a fortune cookie, which is a very small cookie.
And inside there's a piece of paper.
So don't eat the paper.
And the paper has a fortune for you.
It says, you will be very lucky today.
Or your favorite number is 17.
And they're very cute.
Actually, you can see these boxes that Catherine mentions on our lesson page.
It's the lesson photo.
And as you said, very, very common.
Each dish is put in this little box.
So if you ever get Chinese food, you'll see people carrying these little boxes around
because they're very convenient and easy to carry.
But the fortune cookie thing is also very common.
I was actually very surprised when I went to China and there were no fortune cookies.
It's weird, isn't it?
I think it's funny because we expect these things to be very Chinese.
But in fact, when you come to mainland China, they don't have fortune cookies.
So I think it's a nice surprise but also kind of confusing.
Well, a very interesting topic.
And in the future, we're going to continue doing different lessons about different cuisines.
We have Italian food coming up sometime soon.
So that's going to be very good as well.
And of course, if you have any lesson suggestions or maybe you want to suggest the cuisine from
your country, you can visit our website englishpod.com and leave your comments there.
My name is Catherine and we have another episode in our series all about giving presentations
So this is show number eight for us.
We're getting towards the end of the series.
On this occasion, on presentation series number eight, we're going to continue with Mr. Ford
and try to handle a couple of problems that keep coming up.
So take a listen to our dialogue and we'll be back in a moment to discuss it.
So as I mentioned previously, the campaign advertisement will focus on those key elements
that every consumer looks for in a quality laptop.
Affordability, quality, speed, and reliability.
We've pulled out all the stops to produce a product that really rivals all our competitors.
Actually, just to illustrate my point, let me give you an anecdote here.
I remember last year I was playing golf with one of our key suppliers.
It was a lovely summer afternoon.
Anyway, I invited our supplier for a game of golf and wanted to get his input on the
new X420.
Actually, I often get together with him for a good game of golf.
It really is a wonderful way to relax.
To be honest, I'm not that great at golf, but I've improved in the last few years.
But the key to golf is practice, practice, practice.
Sorry, I've lost my thread.
What was I talking about again?
I think you were discussing the campaign advertisement, Michael.
Yes, excuse me.
I'm afraid I got sidetracked there.
Yes, anyway, the campaign.
Well, let me see.
Is the projector working yet, Jonathan?
No, sorry.
IT is still fixing it.
Well, all the information on the campaign is on the PowerPoint.
I haven't actually got my notes with me.
Mr. Ford, could you at least tell us the schedule for the campaign?
When are the first advertisements scheduled for?
Unfortunately, I don't have that information on me.
I'll have to get back to you on that point.
Okay, Michael.
The projector is fixed.
I think we're ready.
Thank goodness.
Sorry for the delay.
So without further ado, the new X420 marketing campaign.
Enjoy!
Oh, I'm terribly sorry.
This is not the advert.
This is my golfing holiday in Barbados.
I think I must have brought the wrong file.
Can we take five?
Come on, Mr. Ford.
And Mr. Ford faced a very embarrassing moment here.
But he also used a lot of interesting vocab.
Why don't we take a look at that now on Language Takeaway.
So at the beginning of today's dialogue, we heard a word that's very interesting.
An anecdote.
What is an anecdote, Marco?
He started telling a story and that's basically an anecdote, a life experience or a story,
something that happened to you and you want to share with people.
So an anecdote is a story.
So he was talking about golfing with a client and this is why.
And so this is called an anecdote.
He was telling a story about it.
After that, though, we realized that he is a little bit distracted.
He says, I'm afraid I got sidetracked there.
So he's obviously talking about the computer and the marketing campaign.
And then he starts talking about golf and how great it is.
So he says, I got sidetracked.
And that means that you got distracted or you started talking about something that's
not related to the topic.
So I really like to eat hamburgers and I like hamburgers with cheese, actually.
But wait, sorry, just got a little sidetracked there.
I think we should focus on English right now.
So it happens sometimes maybe you're even, maybe you're even talking to someone and something
is happening behind that person.
You get sidetracked and you're not really paying attention.
And then after that, we realized that there's still a problem with the projector.
And Mr. Ford asks if it's working yet.
Jonathan, his assistant says, no, sorry, IT are still fixing it.
So this acronym IT, I think many of you have heard it and it means for information technology.
Information technology that has to do with computers.
And so when we have a technical problem or a computer problem, we usually call IT.
So your company probably has an IT department, or if you have, as Catherine said, a problem
with your computer, you just call IT to get them to fix it for you.
Another computer related word comes up later when Mr. Ford says that all of the information
about the campaign is on the PowerPoint.
So PowerPoint, this is a computer program that is very well known for giving presentations.
So you probably use this if you ever have to give a presentation.
PowerPoint is a part of the Microsoft Office suite.
So you know the program Word or the program Excel.
So PowerPoint helps you use your computer to give a presentation.
So you often hear us just talk about PowerPoint.
Can you help me with this PowerPoint in English?
So that's all the words we have for you on Language Takeaway.
Why don't we listen to Mr. Ford again, and we'll be back soon with Fluency Builder.
We have pulled out all the stops to produce a product that really rivals all our competitors.
So we've picked out a lot of great phrases for you today.
Let's start with the first one on Fluency Builder.
At the very beginning, Mr. Ford says we have pulled out all the stops to make a really
great product.
So the phrase used here, to pull out all the stops, what does that mean?
Well, you don't have to think about what it actually means.
We use this when we're trying to say that we've done our best.
We have really gone as far as we can, 100%.
We're giving everything we can to make this thing the best that it can be.
So you've put a lot of effort and resources into making something great.
You didn't hold back.
You didn't save any money.
You just went for it.
Now when we were talking about Mr. Ford being distracted and he started talking about golf,
he said, oh, I'm sorry, I've lost my thread.
So this is interesting because the word thread can mean something that you, it's like a string
that you use to sew clothes with.
But in this particular case, we're talking about a thread of conversation.
And so that's basically the topic that he's talking about.
So when he said, I lost my thread, he makes reference to the thread of conversation of
what he was talking about.
So he's talking about golf, but he lost his thread.
So then he doesn't remember what he was talking about.
And Mr. Ford actually faced a couple of questions from the audience members.
One of them asked about the schedule for the campaign and he said, you know what, I really
don't have that information.
I will have to get back to you on that point.
Well, this is a really great way to answer a question you don't actually know how to
In this case, Mr. Ford doesn't have the answer to this, this audience member's question,
like you said, Marco.
He just says, I will have to get back to you on that.
I will have to let you know later.
So it's a much better, so it's much better to say, I will get back to you instead of
saying, I don't know.
For example, if your boss asks you, I don't know, how were sales last year compared to
this year?
And if you don't know, it's really not recommendable to say, I don't know.
You don't want to say, I don't know.
It makes you sound like you don't know anything.
So in this case, you say, listen, I really have to get back to you about that.
I want to check some numbers.
Okay, so moving on to our next phrase.
When finally he was going to present the ad campaign, he said, so without further ado,
the new 420 marketing campaign.
This phrase, without further ado, is something that we commonly hear in speeches or more
formal occasions, but it's something that we say when we want to introduce something.
We say, we're not going to talk about it anymore.
Let's just do it.
Let's just show you.
So the word ado, is this, this is I think like classic English.
It's not really common to hear it anymore.
No, there is actually a very famous play by Shakespeare called Much Ado About Nothing.
And that means, you know, that there's a lot of talking and a lot of problems and a lot
of drama about this one thing.
And so basically when we say the phrase without further ado, we're saying, you know, without
further talking, talking about this anymore.
So it's a nice way to say, okay, finally we're going to do this, or finally we're going to
see this.
And obviously the video was not the campaign.
It was his golfing holiday in Barbados.
So he asked someone if he could take five.
This phrase to take five is very, very common in English.
And it's just another way to say, can we take a five minute break?
So maybe you can ask your teacher, excuse me, can we, can we take five or, or something
Or, hey guys, I'm, I'm, I need a glass of water.
Let's take five.
So that means let's have a short break.
Let's take a five minute break, but it doesn't always necessarily have to be five minutes.
Now it can be seven minutes or 10 minutes, but take five means a short break.
So you don't say, can we take 10 or can we take seven?
Now usually just say take five, take five.
So a lot of phrases there, a lot of great stuff.
Let's review it one last time.
that every consumer looks for in a quality laptop, affordability, quality, speed, and
I'm sorry, I've lost my thread.
Anyway, the campaign.
Okay, so we're coming towards the end of our presentation series.
So be sure to listen to us next week when we're talking about presentation series part
nine.
And as you may know, it ends with part 10.
So then we'll start with a new series very, very soon.
And I don't know if you have any questions or any suggestions about a series, you can
always contact us.
Yeah, please do let us know what are the things that you have a hard time with when you're
studying English?
Are there things that are confusing or difficult?
We're happy to hear your suggestions and we hope that we can help out.
That's about it for us today, though.
So until next time, bye.
Bye Bye
My name is Catherine and today we have an advanced level lesson for you guys all about
What kind of food are we talking about today, Marco?
Today we're talking about cheese.
So there's so many different types of cheese, so many varieties.
So we're going to take a look at these varieties.
You may know them or not.
But we're also going to take a look at the pronunciation because most of them are either
Italian or French.
So how do you pronounce these in maybe in American English?
Let's listen to our dialogue for the first time and we'll be back in a moment to talk
about the wonderful world of cheese.
My name is Lori and I want to welcome you to this course.
We will learn all about one of the oldest yet most delicious foods on this planet, cheese.
Cheese is usually categorized into four types, soft, semi-soft, semi-hard, and hard.
The designation refers to the amount of moisture in the cheese which directly affects its texture.
Making cheese is an ancient practice dating back thousands of years and the home cheese
maker can usually find recipes for cheese that fall into any of the four categories.
Soft cheese includes cottage cheese, cream cheese, ricotta, brie, blue, roquefort, mozzarella,
muenster, and similar cheeses.
These cheeses generally pair well with fruit or meats and can be used as breakfast cheeses
in an omelet or as pasta fillings.
They are usually mildly flavored and very high in moisture.
American, Colby, Kojak, and similar cheeses are in the semi-soft category.
These are slightly stronger in flavor and cover a wide range of uses.
Kojak cheese, a blend of Colby and Monterey Jack, is one of the most popular.
This allows the sharper flavor of the Colby to be combined with the milder Jack cheese
and also melts better than plain Colby.
Grilled cheese sandwiches often use American cheese and Mexican cheeses such as asadero
and queso fresco are becoming more popular.
Hard cheeses include parmesan, romano, asiago, swiss, gruyere, and others.
Parmesan and romano are most familiar as the grated powder used to top spaghetti, but they
are also used as a companion mince for fruit, wine, nuts, and other appetizer items.
Swiss is a popular sandwich cheese and melts well, unlike some other hard cheeses.
Alright we're back, so obviously this is a very interesting lesson because it also gives
us an insight on how cheeses are categorized.
I personally did not know that you had all these categories of cheeses.
Starting out with the soft cheeses.
That's right, so basically they're broken into these soft, semi-soft, semi-hard, and
hard categories.
The soft cheeses are the ones that are actually, you know, you could touch them and they're
soft, they kind of move under your finger.
And the famous ones I think are cottage cheese, which is almost like yogurt.
Yeah, and cream cheese.
And cream cheese as well.
But also ricotta, and brie, and roquefort, and mozzarella.
So for example, these cheeses, they're usually, well they're obviously very soft cheeses.
Do you say cheeses or cheese, or chees-eye?
Yeah we just say cheese normally, or different kinds of cheese, so in that case you make
the plural kinds of cheese.
Types of cheese.
So these kinds of cheese, they are recommended, or they say that they pair well with fruits
or meat.
So when we talk about pairing a cheese with fruits, or pairing a cheese with wine, what
are we saying there?
In that case we're saying that it's best to eat with certain kinds of food.
So you can say, I would recommend pairing this red wine with lamb.
But in the case of cheese you could say, I would recommend pairing this delicious brie
cheese with fruit.
Okay, so you actually have brie with fruit.
It's, well it depends on the kind of cheese.
A lot of times you see mozzarella on pizzas, and so it's not paired, it's actually a part
of the dish.
It's an ingredient, right.
But if you're going to eat a piece of cheese alone, you can have it maybe with some fruit.
So I guess that's the main difference between pairing and having it as an ingredient.
It's pairing, you're combining it, but it's not really part of the dish.
No, and as an ingredient it's actually, it has to be in the dish to make it work.
And so you have a lot of these delicious soft cheeses that you eat at breakfast, or sometimes
dessert, ricotta, cream cheese, these are all parts of desserts, like cheesecake for
example.
Oh yeah, what do they use in cheesecake?
Usually cream cheese.
But then you get into these other cheeses which are semi-soft or semi-hard.
And semi here just means part.
So it's partially hard, partially soft.
And these cheeses are different because you might use them sliced on sandwiches, things
In this category you have American and Colby, and Monterey Jack is also very, very popular.
So these actually do have a more American sound to it.
The American cheese or Monterey Jack, that sounds a little bit different than all the
Italian or French sounding cheeses that we had in the soft ones.
That's right, and you'd even have something like cheddar in this category.
There's another...
Cheddar cheese.
Yeah, there's another good cheese.
As you said, these are very typically put in sandwiches.
Yeah, I mean you can use them in different ways.
Sometimes we grate cheese, that means we rub it against this machine, a grater, to make
it come out in these little fine pieces.
For example, on top of pasta or on top of nachos.
So we have grated cheese, but you can also have sliced cheese, and that's the way that
we cut cheese to put it on a sandwich.
So for example, if you go to McDonald's and you get a burger, usually the cheese that's
on your hamburger is cheddar cheese, right?
That's right, it's a slice of cheddar cheese.
So moving on to our next category, well actually towards the end of the different types of
cheese under the semi-soft category, they also talk about Mexican cheeses such as asadero
and queso fresco.
I love queso fresco.
You've had this before?
Yes, many times.
What do you usually have it with or how do you pair it?
Usually it's an ingredient on tacos because it's a little bit crumbly.
It's like balls as opposed to being one chunk, one big piece.
And so we usually have it like that or I've also had it as just a piece of cheese paired
with a fried plantain or sour cream.
It's actually very good.
The thing with queso fresco is all of the cheese, they also depend on how mature they
are, how long they've taken to make them.
And queso fresco means fresh in Spanish and this is the main factor in this type of cheese
that is very, very immature.
It's a very fresh cheese.
You can make it in like a day or two.
It just takes one night to sit and to become cheese basically.
But other cheeses, and we'll see some of these in the hard cheeses, take a very long time
to become their final cheese state.
And one of those cheeses is parmesan.
In Italy, when you buy parmesan, they have these big wheels of it, they're circles.
And you have to pay according to how old it is.
18 months, 36 months.
And it gets more expensive the older it is.
So obviously the older it is, just like wine, it has a more intense flavor.
And there are special characteristics for certain ages.
Sometimes people really like the young ones.
It depends on your taste and what you're going to use it for.
But Romano is another cheese in Italy that's used like parmesan on top of pastas.
So spaghetti, you would grate it and you put it on top of pasta.
What about, they also mentioned this other one, Asiago.
Asiago cheese, Swiss cheese is the one with the holes.
Asiago is, I don't know, maybe it's Spanish.
But then we have Gruyere, which is a French cheese and tends to be very, very, very strong
flavored.
And I think Gruyere is the cheese that usually many people use for making fondue.
So they basically have this big pot or this medium-sized pot and all the cheese just melts
and you just dip pieces of bread or vegetables in there and you eat this just melted cheese.
Fondue, very popular dish in Switzerland.
But yeah, all these different types of cheese, as you said, there are so many different types
and according to the age.
Now you lived in Italy for a while and obviously they are a nation that enjoy having wine and
cheese very regularly, right?
And I have to say that people in Parma take their cheese very, very seriously.
How serious?
Well, a lot of people buy these big pieces of parmesan cheese and they keep them in the
refrigerator and you don't just put the parmesan cheese on the spaghetti.
You also break pieces of it and you eat it alone with a glass of wine or some people
like to put a little drop of balsamic vinegar on top of the cheese to give it some flavor.
So there are many different ways to eat it.
I'm sure it's different all over the country, but mozzarella, parmesan cheese, Romano, these
are all cheeses that are very, very important in Italian culture.
It's very interesting because, well, obviously we have listeners from all over the world,
but some countries have a good culture for wine, cheese and cured meats.
Like for example, in South America, if you visit Argentina or Chile, they are a nation
that actually have a lot of variety of cheese, wines and cured meats.
But if you take a trip to maybe Colombia, they're not really that type of culture.
They really consume cheese and wine in the same manner.
I wonder if it has to do with the historical relationship between Europe and the place
like Argentina.
In Argentina, there's lots of Italian former people who came over from Italy many, many
years ago.
So that might have something to do with it.
Spain has a very strong tradition of cured meats and cheeses.
They have manchego cheese, things like this.
So I wonder if there's a relationship there.
I think it's definitely an influence in some way.
But the thing with cheese, I think in many places it's very expensive.
Comparatively to if you can have a regular mozzarella cheese, but sometimes these other
types, they can be very expensive.
Yeah, it's like good wine.
If you really want to pay for good cheese, it's going to cost you a lot of money.
Now what about this famous blue cheese?
We didn't mention it, but this is a very famous French cheese that basically has mold on it.
Well, yeah, all cheese, you're growing cultures.
You're growing these things that are alive.
But blue cheese, you can actually see it.
And it's moldy.
It's white and there's some blue or green mold.
And some people love it and some people hate it.
I think it depends on your tastes, but it does have a very strong flavor.
Do you personally like it or dislike it?
I do not like blue cheese, but I love other kinds of cheeses like camembert, which is
a French cheese with a very strong flavor, very stinky cheese.
So it's not necessarily that it's strong.
It's just that I don't like the taste very much.
Actually, it's very popular to put on salads, right?
Blue cheese sauce or a dressing.
Blue cheese dressing, yeah, that's right.
It's made out of blue cheese.
It's a very interesting topic and I'm sure that locally, many people also make or countries
have their own types of cheese.
I know for example, in Ecuador, we do have also something very similar to queso fresco
that's commonly used for breakfast.
And here's an interesting thing.
They put it in their cup of coffee.
It's cheese cheese, isn't it?
It's cheese.
So basically you have coffee with milk, very popular in Latin America.
And people will take a piece of cheese and put it in their coffee.
So obviously with the heat, it won't melt completely, but it will become very bendy
and very soft.
And then they'll have it with the coffee and the bread.
So it gives it a very interesting taste.
It may sound a little bit peculiar, but it actually has a very, very interesting taste,
very good taste.
I've had many friends try and they're like, wow, you wouldn't really think that you would
probably dip cheese in coffee, but it works.
No, it's a very unusual combination.
Now what is this special cheese called?
It's called queso de mesa, which is basically a normal, common, everyday table cheese.
So it's not any particular, it's very similar to queso fresco, very immature cheese.
So I'm very curious to know if in your country you also have a strong cheese culture.
And if in your country you guys do have a lot of cheese, what kind of cheese is it?
I know that every country has its own variety of cheeses and some places like China aren't
really into cheese.
So you can let us know if your country doesn't really have that many cheese options.
So we're very curious to hear about you and your taste in cheese.
See you later.
Hello everyone and welcome to EnglishPod. My name is Marco. My name is Catherine and today we have an intermediate level lesson about education and university.
That's right. Today we're trying to find a university. We want to get some information about how much it costs and all that sort of stuff.
So, why don't we jump into the dialogue and see what's going on today.
AmLion College
I've never heard of AmLion College. Could you?
Of course, sir. Let me give you a brief overview.
AmLion College is located in the center of New York City. The school covers a wide range of academic subjects and 80% of the courses are transferable to other state universities.
And last year AmLion College was ranked number one in terms of graduate employment.
Interesting. And what about the tuition fees, then?
You'll be looking at somewhere around $15,000 per semester.
Okay. Well...
And did I mention our on-campus housing? Students can stay in our newly renovated dorms for as little as $3,000 per month.
Sounds good. Well, I'll just grab one of your flyers.
Sir, you got the wrong flyer. Sir! Sir!
Alright, we're back. So now let's take a look at some language on Language Takeaway.
So, first up, Marco, we've got this word, transferable.
In the dialogue, the representative from AmLion College said that 80% of the courses are transferable to other state universities.
Okay, so before we talk about transferable, what is the difference here? We have two words, college and university.
So why is he saying that you can transfer your courses from AmLion College to another university?
Well, college and university are words that we use in English to describe higher education.
That means education after high school.
And a college is usually just for people who are in the middle of their studies.
A college is usually just for bachelor's students, students who are doing their first four years out of high school.
But a university is usually a larger institution that has bachelor's degree students as well as master's degree students and PhD candidates.
And so while a college is for 18 to 22 year olds, a university can have students of all ages who are doing sometimes very advanced degrees like postdoctoral work.
Okay, very interesting. And so this is why the person mentions that 80% of the courses are transferable to other state universities.
So transferable means that you can transfer, you can move to another university.
So everything that you've studied, you can take with you.
That's right. So a lot of people like to start at a college or vice versa.
They just start at a big university and transfer to a college.
And so it's important to know that your courses can be transferred as well.
So if I studied Spanish for two years, I can transfer that, I can transfer those courses to my new school.
Right, so you don't have to start over.
And well, obviously, one of the big questions when you're picking a university is the tuition fee.
So tuition is the amount of money it costs to attend a university for usually a year.
Tuition fees is the actual money you have to pay.
So you can say, I can't afford my tuition fees this year, so I will be getting a part time job.
Okay. And so this is what tuition fees are.
In school, you call it tuition.
You don't say how much it costs.
You ask, what is the tuition?
What's the tuition exactly?
Okay. And he mentioned that it was around $15,000 per semester.
So this is interesting. Is this the year?
No, a semester is half of an academic year.
All right. So an academic year is usually September to May or June.
And a semester is half of that.
So first semester or fall semester is the study period between September and December or January.
That's right. Okay.
So basically what we could deduce is that this university costs $15,000 per semester or about $30,000 per year.
And well, he also mentioned about the on-campus housing.
All right. So on-campus is pretty straightforward.
It means that this housing option where you live and sleep is on the campus.
And a university campus is not one building.
It's many, many buildings together.
Sometimes there are classrooms and there are laboratories and there's a cafeteria.
But there's also housing.
And most housing comes in one style.
What's the style they mentioned in today's dialogue?
A dorm. This is where university students usually live if they live on campus.
They have dorms.
So dorm is short for dormitory.
And it basically means that it's an apartment building for students or even sometimes workers that's very close to where they'll be studying or working.
So what is the difference between a dorm and an apartment?
Well, I can give you an example.
Some dorms are very fancy, but my dorm at university was very simple.
So I lived in one bedroom with another girl.
There were two beds and no bathroom.
And so everyone on that floor of the building shared bathrooms.
And the bathrooms were, you know, there's six showers and four toilets or whatever.
Yeah, I think this is the main thing with a dorm is usually you don't have a kitchen.
You don't have usually your own bathroom.
And so it's just basically a room and a bedroom.
And then you share everything else with other people.
A lot of great things related to college.
I think this is very good vocab for you, especially if you're considering going to college or something like that.
Especially if you're considering going to college or maybe you want to continue your study.
So why don't we go back.
Let's listen to this dialogue again.
And we'll be back with Fluency Builder.
I've never heard of AmLion College.
Could you?
Of course, sir.
Let me give you a brief overview.
AmLion College is located in the center of New York City.
The school covers a wide range of academic subjects.
And 80% of the courses are transferable to other state universities.
And last year, AmLion College was ranked number one in terms of graduate employment.
And what about the tuition fees then?
Well.
And did I mention our on-campus housing?
Students can stay in our newly renovated dorms for as little as $3,000 per month.
Well, I'll just grab one of your flyers.
Sir, you got the wrong flyer.
Sir.
So now let's take a look at these three phrases we've picked out for you on Fluency Builder.
So again, when the person who was speaking for this college was describing it,
they said that the school covers a wide range of academic subjects.
Now this phrase, wide range, is something you'll hear in a lot of different contexts.
What does it mean, Marco?
It means that they have a variety, a very big variety of subjects.
So they don't only focus, for example, on business.
They may have arts, they may have engineering, business, etc.
So if you're studying at a university and they offer one course, they offer English,
is that a wide range of subjects?
No, no, that's not a wide range.
So basically, a wide range of subjects would be that you can have many, many, many choices.
Well, after that, we also had a great phrase when we were discussing tuition fees.
So the visitor asked, what about the tuition fees?
And the answer was, you'll be looking at somewhere around $15,000.
Now, you'll be looking at is a very, very strange phrase, right?
Well, it's not strange, but it might sound strange to non-native English speakers.
It's actually a very common phrase, especially when you're talking to salesmen.
They don't want to say, you'll have to pay or you have to pay or anything like this.
They'll say, well, you'll be looking at somewhere around $15,000.
And that means you are expected to pay this amount of money.
But they don't really say pay.
So this is the key thing.
So this is the price.
This is the price tag.
And this is something that, like you're saying, salespeople say so that you don't have to say,
well, the price of this is $30,000.
So another good context for this phrase would be like a car dealership.
If I'm buying a car and I see a beautiful new Ford Mustang and I say, well, how much does this cost?
What would you, as the car dealer, say?
I'll say, well, you'll be looking at around $30,000.
So this is a way of saying you'll have to pay.
And, well, the guy wasn't really convinced.
I think it was kind of expensive because dorms were also $3,000 per month.
So he was like, well, sounds good.
So this phrase, sounds good, is something that English speakers use all the time.
I personally use it very, very often.
And it's another way of saying okay.
So if you agree with someone, you say sounds good.
So should we meet at 7 for the movie tonight?
It's another way of saying yes, good, okay, very well.
So sounds good.
Let's listen to everything one more time, and we'll be back in a bit.
The school covers a wide range of academic subjects,
and 80% of the courses are transferable to other state universities.
And what about the tuition fees, then?
Sir!
All right, so universities in the United States, they have a very...
They have a...
They're infamous for being very expensive.
And so we discussed the difference between colleges and universities,
but I think it's important to also talk about the difference between public and private schools.
Public schools are schools that are paid for by the government or that are subsidized,
so the government pays part of them.
And these are schools that tend to be cheaper than private schools.
So private schools can be as much as $50,000 for one year of study.
So, for example, the famous ones like Harvard or Stanford, those are private schools.
Those are private schools, but the University of California is a public institution.
The University of Illinois, for example, is another public institution.
So there are many different options in the United States.
I think usually the state universities have the name of the state in them.
So University of Florida is probably state university.
That's right, but you have to be careful because the University of Pennsylvania is a private university.
Yeah, it's an Ivy League school, so it's one of the oldest schools in America,
and it's like Harvard or Yale. It's very, very high quality.
This is something that they always mention when talking about universities in the States.
They always say it's an Ivy League school, just like you said right now.
What does it mean if a university is Ivy League?
Well, a league is just a group, right?
And so some of the first universities in the United States formed this group called the Ivy League,
and I think it used to have to do with the sports.
These teams would play each other in sports, but I could be wrong.
But anyway, in the 18th century, these were schools for men,
and there were seven Ivy League schools for men, and then there were the sister schools for women.
Wellesley, Radcliffe, these are the sister schools.
And so nowadays, both men and women can go to all these universities,
and so we just talk about them as the Ivy Leagues.
And the Ivy League schools that are most famous are Harvard, Yale, Brown,
University of Pennsylvania, Columbia, things like that.
So talking about universities and colleges, I have heard also the community college.
Yeah, that can be a lot more affordable.
That's something that's, because it's a community college, it's usually something you go to back near your home.
Because colleges and universities, sometimes people travel very, very far to go to these schools.
But community colleges are available to people in your own community, and you can take night classes.
You can do a lot of different things at them.
They're great resources. They're a lot more affordable than other schools.
And a lot of people like to go to them because they don't have to pay these expensive fees for housing like dorms or for travel.
And they're a great option for people.
So community colleges, colleges, and universities are the major distinctions.
There is a lot to talk about on this subject, especially if you're a student or you're a professional,
considering doing a master's abroad or you want to go to the States or Canada to study.
There's a lot of things to take into consideration.
So this is a great topic. We really want to hear from you if you have any other questions or doubts.
You can always find us at EnglishPod.com.
We hope to see you guys there. Until next time.
Hello everyone and welcome to EnglishPod. My name is Marco. My name is Katherine and
here today we have almost, almost to the end of our series on giving a presentation in
English. This is part 9 of 10, so this is near the end. But we've got a lot of really
great words and phrases for discussing what you've talked about in the last, I don't know,
10 minutes or so. It's the summary of your speech and so that's what we're going to talk
That's right. So let's take a look at what Mr. Ford is saying in his summary and we'll
be back in a bit.
Right everyone. I apologize that I can't show you the marketing campaign today, but next
week you will all have the opportunity to see it for yourselves. And I have no doubt
that you will be impressed. Let me wrap up the presentation by summarizing my key points.
As I mentioned at the outset, 2010 represents a key year for Alpha Computers. The recession
is hopefully behind us. It is clear to everyone in the computer industry that demand is booming,
especially in the developing markets. If we are to succeed in this ultra-competitive field
then we really need to push forward and offer our customers products that meet their needs
on all levels. As I hope I've illustrated, the X420 represents the kind of computer that
can really satisfy those needs.
I gave you an idea of the kind of revenue we expect to hit in 2010 with the new X420
range and believe me, this is really just the beginning. Once we establish the X420
in the market, we have plans to continue to expand our range with ever more revolutionary
and impressive products.
Alpha Computers is dedicated to innovation and improvement. I really see no limit in
our potential as long as we stick to the principles I stressed earlier. Quality, excellence, and
Before we move on to the Q&A section, I'd really like to leave you with a quote that
really sums up everything that we've discussed today and hopefully it will provide you with
the same inspiration that it gives me. As the great Henry Ford once said, quality means
doing it right when no one is looking. Well, in fact our customers are looking. They are
looking for us to lead the way and to give them the quality that our competitors cannot.
We cannot let them down.
All right, we're back. So now let's take a look at some language on Language Takeaway.
So, Marco, at the very beginning of today's monologue, we have a phrase that basically
means the same thing as summarize. What was that phrase?
That's right. At the last sentence of the first paragraph, we see Mr. Ford say, let
me wrap up the presentation by summarizing my key points. So the phrase there is wrap
It means to conclude, to finish, to end. This is the very end of his speech and so to wrap
something up means to finish it.
That's right. So maybe if you're giving a speech and someone is telling you to wrap
it up quickly.
That means stop.
Please find an ending point. So wrap it up. Let's go. Come on.
That's right. So he's wrapping it up by summarizing what he has talked about. And so he goes back
to the very beginning and he says, as I mentioned at the outset.
Okay, the outset is a noun, it's a time and it means the beginning. So you might remember
in parts one or two of this speech that he was talking about why 2010 is an important
year for their company. And so this is the outset. This is the beginning. You can also
say at the outset things looked bad but it turns out that they went well.
Okay. So outset means beginning the start of something. Okay. And he also talked about
how the computer industry demand is booming.
All right. So booming is an interesting word because boom, the noun means boom, a sound.
To explode.
Right. It's a sound that you hear when there's a storm. But booming means doing very well.
That means that in this case demand is booming. There is a lot of demand.
That's right. So when you hear people say business is booming.
That means business is going very well. It's very successful.
Okay. So it basically means that it's doing very well, that it's growing quickly and rapidly.
So he went on to talk about the X420 and how the company has plans to keep expanding and
keep coming out with ever more revolutionary and impressive products.
Okay. So something is a revolutionary if it changes a situation. Okay. Because revolution
basically means change but not a small change, a really big change. And so a product is revolutionary
if it introduces something really new, really exciting.
Okay. So an example of a revolutionary product was the home computer.
Exactly. Because the home computer changed the way people typed and communicated and
did all these different things. And so it's revolutionary because it introduced a big
change.
That's right. Okay. So revolutionary. Towards the end of Mr. Ford's dialogue, he said that
they're going to have a Q&A section and he left us with a quote that according to him
sums up everything we've discussed today.
Okay. To sum up. This is very related to the word to summarize. It means to say in fewer
words. Okay. So this quote says what he wants to say, but it says it in a very short space.
So if we read a book and I ask you to sum up the story, this is basically I'm asking
for a summary.
That's right. So I could say, you know, the Harry Potter story is a story about a young
boy who is a wizard who loses his parents, who goes to school with his friends and learns
about his powers.
That's a perfect way to sum up the Harry Potter story. All right. Very good.
So that's about it for language takeaway today, but we have some great phrases coming up for
you in Fluency Builder. Let's listen to the dialogue again first and we'll be back in
Right everyone, I apologize that I can't show you the marketing campaign today, but next
especially in the developing markets. If we're to succeed in this ultra competitive field,
on all levels.
As I hope I've illustrated, the X420 represents the kind of computer that can really satisfy
those needs. I gave you an idea of the kind of revenue we expect to hit in 2010 with the
new X420 range, and believe me, this is really just the beginning. Once we establish the
X420 in the market, we have plans to continue to expand our range with ever more revolutionary
and impressive products. Alpha Computers is dedicated to innovation and improvement. I
really see no limit in our potential as long as we stick to the principles I stressed earlier,
quality, excellence, and service.
really sums up everything that we've discussed today, and hopefully it will provide you with
doing it right when no one is looking. Well, in fact, our customers are looking. They're
All right, we're back. So now let's take a look at four key phrases on Fluency Builder.
So the first phrase we've got here in Fluency Builder is an interesting one, and I think
it's important to point out because we've got a verb and a noun that often go together.
Mr. Ford said this kind of computer can really satisfy those needs that customers have.
That's right. So the phrase there is to satisfy a need. And as you said, this verb and this
noun usually go together. You want to satisfy your customers' needs.
All right, so what do I need? I need a good computer that is fast that I can do my business
on. And this computer, the X420, satisfies that need. It does what I need it to do.
Okay, so we understand the verb to satisfy, but the phrase is a very powerful phrase,
especially if you use it in business where you're saying we are giving our customers
what they need and we are making them happy.
Okay. As he continued talking about the X420, he said this is just the beginning.
All right, so this is something we often say when we have a long project or plan. You can
say, yes, things are good now, but this is just the beginning. All right, there are many
good things to come. And this is something we often say in a positive way. Yes, this
is good, but expect better things in the future.
Very good. Okay, so this is just the beginning. And well, as he continued talking about the
company, he said that the customers are looking for us to lead the way.
Okay, so this is an interesting phrase because he's making a comparison with other companies
and he's saying, listen, our customers have many needs, but they want us to really be
ahead of them and to innovate and to make new things and new computers that will be
ahead of the competition. So take the lead, be in the front.
So basically the phrase to lead the way is for you to be in the front and give people
a clear path.
Think of Usain Bolt, that runner in the Olympics. Everyone's running quickly, but all of a sudden
he takes the lead. He leads the way. He is ahead of everyone else. All the other runners
are far, far behind him.
That's right. Okay, so he's leading the way and he finishes his monologue by saying, we
cannot let them down. We cannot let our customers down, basically. So the phrase here is to
let someone down.
He let me down. We let them down. This is a great phrase and you can use it about anybody.
And it's a really important phrase because it means to disappoint someone. So for example,
Marco, when you forgot my birthday, you really let me down.
Okay, so that means I disappointed you because I forgot your birthday. So to let someone
down is to disappoint them, to not do what you were expected to do.
Exactly. And so a company can do this. For example, when a company like Toyota makes
a car that has many problems, that company lets down its customers.
So you can let someone down. Basically, you have to have the subject. You let someone
down or the company let down its customers.
Okay. A lot of great stuff here. Why don't we take one last listen and we'll be back
in a bit.
especially in the developing markets. If we are to succeed in this ultra-competitive field,
range, and believe me, this is really just the beginning. Once we establish the X420
our potential as long as we stick to the principles I stressed earlier, quality, excellence, and
really sums up everything we've discussed today, and hopefully it will provide you with
doing it right, when no one is looking. Well, in fact, our customers are looking. They are
Alright guys, so this is the penultimate lesson about presentation skills. As you saw, we
are summarizing and concluding the presentation, and there are actually a lot of great things
here to learn from, especially the vocab where you're saying, okay, let's sum things up,
to wrap it up, to conclude, to summarize.
Summarize the key points, yeah. But there are also some important things coming up next
week. That's the very, very last part of this series, because usually after a presentation,
there is a section for questions and answers. That's called Q&A, and that's the topic of
our next show. So you guys should stay tuned for that.
Alright, so we'll see you guys next time, and of course, if you have any questions or
comments, you will always find us at EnglishPod.com.
Lauren, we have a lot of questions.
My name is Catherine and today we're talking about eating food and certain foods that people
don't eat.
So today we have special diets.
We're going to talk all about being a vegetarian or a vegan and we're going to explain all
these words when we come back.
So now let's just listen to the dialogue.
Hey, Julie.
Do you want to go grab something to eat?
What do you feel like having?
I really feel like having a big juicy steak.
I don't eat meat, but that's fine.
I'm sure wherever we're going, they will have other options, right?
I didn't know you were a vegetarian.
I'm not.
I'm a vegan.
A vegan.
I don't eat or use any animal-based products.
I don't wear leather, eat eggs, drink milk or anything that comes from an animal.
I used to be a pescatarian before, which basically means you don't eat meat, but still have fish
and seafood.
It must be tough.
It's a bit difficult to find vegetarian-friendly restaurants sometimes, but since more and
more people are vegetarians or vegans nowadays, it's getting a bit less difficult.
So now probably a lot of you have an idea of what it means to be a vegetarian, but let's
take a look at that word and many more on Language Takeaway.
So a vegetarian is a noun.
I am a vegetarian.
Vegetarian is a noun.
You say I am a vegetarian.
He is a vegetarian.
And in this case, a vegetarian person does not eat meat.
So no chicken, no beef, none of that stuff.
So as you can see, it has the prefix veget, like vegetable.
So that's what they eat.
They just eat vegetables.
And it's a little bit hard to say what all vegetarians do or don't eat because some people
have different rules.
Some people eat eggs, some people don't.
But there is something that is a little bit different from a vegetarian.
It's called a vegan and this person has many, many rules about what he can or cannot eat.
So a vegetarian basically does not eat meat.
A vegan, as we saw in our dialogue, doesn't wear leather, for example, doesn't wear leather
shoes or a jacket or use or eat anything that comes from an animal.
No eggs, right?
No foods that might have any animal products in them.
So vegans often try to find foods at the grocery store that come from natural products that
are not animal based.
And so there has to be a symbol on the back of the box or the jar that says that it's
vegan.
So in that case, they don't drink milk, they don't eat eggs, nothing that you can think
of that comes from an animal.
But on the other hand, this person used to be a pescatarian.
So this is another type of person that has a special diet, very much like a vegetarian.
A pescatarian is a person who is a vegetarian but who also eats fish.
And so maybe I'm a pescatarian because I don't consider fish to be animals.
So I don't eat lamb, I don't eat chicken, but I do eat fish.
I'm a pescatarian.
So a vegetarian does not eat fish or any type of meat, the same as a vegan, but a pescatarian
does eat maybe shrimp and fish and any type of animal from the sea.
And well, that brings us up to our next word.
A pescatarian will eat seafood.
Seafood is a word we use to describe animals that come from the sea.
So not just fish.
So like you said, shrimp and lobster.
You could even think of really delicious food like a seafood pasta or a seafood salad, octopus,
So you got clams, you have oysters, anything that comes from the sea is considered seafood.
And our last word in language takeaway is an adjective.
We heard at the end of the dialogue, our character said, it must be tough.
That's an interesting word because in English it has a few different meanings, but what
was the meaning of the word tough in today's dialogue?
In today's dialogue, when the person said it must be tough, it's basically saying it
must be difficult.
It must be difficult to be a vegetarian.
So it's a hard situation.
You could also say, oh man, this homework is really tough.
That means it's hard.
It's difficult.
So we've taken a look at a lot of key words there.
Listen to our dialogue again and we'll be back in a bit.
Hey Julie, do you want to go grab something to eat?
I'm sure wherever we're going, they will have other options.
I don't wear leather, eat eggs, drink milk, or anything that comes from an animal.
Now we've prepared three phrases for you.
So there's a very interesting and very, very common phrase at the beginning of today's
dialogue that we use all the time in English.
This is to grab something to eat.
The character says, hey Julie, you want to go grab something to eat?
So taking that as a phrase, we are inviting someone to go eat something.
So I could say, hey, do you want to go eat something?
Or I could say, hey, do you want to go grab something to eat?
And the verb grab is to take or to hold in your hand.
So you want to go grab something to eat is basically that.
But don't be confused because grabbing normally means holding with your hand, but to grab
something to eat generally just means, hey, would you like to go eat something with me?
And of course we want to go grab something to eat and the guy says, I really feel like
having a big juicy steak.
So we feel like having a steak.
This is very spoken English.
So remember when you're talking to your friends, this is okay, but maybe if you're writing
something it's not as good.
But I feel like a steak means I want to eat a steak.
So you're saying you are a steak.
No, I don't feel like a steak, like a piece of meat, but I do want to eat a piece of,
I do want to eat a steak.
And so I feel like having, or I feel like a steak.
These are both acceptable in spoken English.
So you basically feel like doing something or you feel like eating something.
For example, if we're going to have dinner, you can say, I feel like having Italian food.
I don't feel like having Italian food tonight.
I feel like having Mexican food.
And I also feel like watching a movie.
So great ways of using feel like, and then a verb like having or watching a movie.
Now getting back to the vegetarian, the vegan aspect of our dialogue, we saw that the girl
explained how she doesn't eat or use any animal based products.
So these three words, animal based products.
So product is basically anything that will be sold or bought.
Animal based is a way to describe a product.
So some products have animal products in them.
So for example, my shoes are an animal based product because they are leather and leather
comes from cows, which are animals.
So you're basically saying that they have something from an animal.
They are made up of something that comes from an animal like leather shoes.
And it's not just shoes.
It's also shampoo or some of the foods that you eat like in jars and cans.
It's important if you're a vegan to look on the side of the can or the side of the box
and see is this an animal based product?
Are there animal products in this?
A lot of interesting things in this dialogue today.
Why don't we listen to it one last time and we'll be back.
I don't eat or use any animal based products.
It's a bit difficult to find vegetarian friendly restaurants sometimes, but since more and
All right, so talking about vegan vegetarians, pescatarians, it seems like these diets or
these lifestyles are more and more popular, but as we saw in the dialogue, it can be a
little bit difficult, especially maybe in countries where it's not so popular to have
these diets.
I think that in places where you can find vegan and vegetarian products very easily,
being a vegetarian becomes much more easy because you have more options.
But if you're living in a country where it's very hard to eat a meal without having meat,
then you might just eat potatoes every day and that will get very, very difficult and
very boring.
Well, that's one of the main arguments or the main concerns with people is that even
though you can argue that you can get all the vitamins or many of the vitamins and minerals
from nuts and from vegetables, it's still not healthy to completely exclude from your
diet maybe sources of proteins like meat or eggs or dairy products.
And so in America, for example, it's very easy to find supplements.
You can take vitamins like calcium and you can have pills that will give you some protein
and you can find all sorts of exotic vegetables that will help you supplement your diet.
But in a place like China, for example, I think it can be a lot harder to find those
products and to find those supplements.
And so being a vegan especially or a vegetarian poses a lot more challenges.
Especially I think with what you mentioned that products are usually labeled where they
tell you if they have any animal based products in there.
Whereas in other countries, it's probably not labeled and it's a little bit, even things
like getting the fat free things are a little bit more difficult in other countries like
for example, China.
So we would like to know, are there many vegans or vegetarians in your country?
And if there are, do you think it's hard for them to buy food?
Why or why not?
My name is Catherine and we have a delicious Italian food lesson for you today.
We are at an Italian restaurant and we are ordering food.
So this is going to be very helpful next time you are at an Italian restaurant with your
friends and you're ordering up some dishes.
Let's take a listen to our dialogue and we'll be back in a moment to talk about what's going
Good evening ladies.
My name is Josh and I'll be your server tonight.
Do you have any recommendations?
Well, I personally like the chicken penne with cream mushroom sauce.
But the prawn fettuccine is also very nice.
I'd like to have the grilled chicken.
But can I have spaghetti instead of penne?
Of course, ma'am.
And for you?
I'll have the horse tripe.
All right, we're back and now let's take a look at all those delicious Italian dishes
So first of all, we have two different kinds of sauce really.
The first is cream mushroom.
So what's a cream sauce, Marco?
A cream mushroom sauce.
So basically, this is cream from milk and you have mushrooms in it.
And I don't know, I think everyone has seen it.
It's a very thick white sauce.
It has little slices of mushrooms in it.
It's kind of sweet.
And so oftentimes you see there's a lot of cream in it.
And so oftentimes you see there's cream sauces, which are white, and tomato sauces, which
are red.
And this here is a cream sauce, so it's white and it's got chunks of mushroom in it.
Very tasty.
And the waiter also offered prawn with the pasta.
So what is a prawn?
Prawn fettuccine.
So prawn is like a big, it's like a word for shrimp.
I always think of jumbo prawns, which are these big, big, big shrimps.
So they're basically the same thing.
Shrimp and prawn are basically the same.
And they're a seafood that when they get cooked, they curl.
So they look like a circle, but they're pinkish or red.
They're very tasty.
Okay, so now let's take a look at the different types of pasta.
So we have three different types of pasta that the waiter suggested.
So the first one is...
Okay, we're going to say all three in the American way, but I'm going to tell you the
Italian way is quite different.
So I'll say that afterwards.
The first is penne.
So this is a type of pasta.
It is like a small tube.
So maybe three centimeters long, and it is round and it has a hole in the middle.
And so it's a kind of pasta.
And what about the fettuccine?
So fettuccine is a long noodle, but it's flat.
It's not round, it's flat.
Fettuccine.
So it kind of looks like a shoelace.
Yeah, it's long and flat.
And then we have spaghetti, which I think many people know, and this is probably the
most popular one.
Spaghetti is very long, just like fettuccine, but it's very, very thin and round.
So it kind of looks like maybe a pencil, a very long pencil.
But very thin, more like hair, actually.
And there are thin kinds, so they have a special name.
But this is just a normal pasta that you will see everywhere.
It's very long and you can twirl it.
You can spin it around your fork.
Okay, so that's what we have.
We have penne, fettuccine, and spaghetti.
Now, the other woman ended up ordering horse tripe.
Now this is also another Italian dish.
What is this exactly?
Well, horse is the animal, so this is tripe that comes from a horse.
But tripe is a certain part of the animal that we, it's a food name actually.
So when we eat the stomach lining, the part of the stomach that goes around the stomach,
it's kind of squishy, soft.
That is called tripe.
And you can have tripe from many different animals, like cows or pigs.
But in this case, it's horse tripe.
So it's basically that thick piece of like spongy material around the animal's stomach.
When you cook it, it looks very funny.
So this is actually a famous Italian dish as well, right?
I think they eat it in the South more, but you can definitely get tripe in a lot of different
places in Italy.
So there you have it.
A lot of different dishes, Italian dishes.
We've taken a look at a couple of pasta dishes.
Why don't we take a break, listen to the dialogue again, and we'll be back with Fluency Builder.
Good evening, ladies.
Well, I personally like the chicken penne with cream mushroom sauce, but the prawn fettuccine
is also very nice.
I'd like to have the grilled chicken, but can I have spaghetti instead of penne?
So now we're going to give you three key phrases from Fluency Builder.
So the phrases we have selected for you today are phrases that you are sure to hear anytime
you go to a restaurant in America or any other English speaking country.
Basically, you have a waiter who comes to you if you sit down and this is what they'll
The first thing they'll say is, I'll be your server.
I'll be your server tonight.
So he introduces himself.
He says, good evening, ladies.
So when he's saying, I'll be your server, it's another way of saying, I'll be your waiter.
Your waiter, that's right.
But server can be a man or a woman.
And a waiter can only be a man.
If it's a woman, it's a waitress.
So waitress for a woman, waiter for a guy.
But if you use server, it's for men and women.
Yes, I'll be your server.
And I just like to remind you that this is more common in America because in America,
waiters and waitresses or servers, they have to earn tips and so they're very nice.
So this is why they introduce themselves.
They are very nice to you.
And then they ask, may I take your order?
So the verb to take here doesn't mean to take it from you.
It means to ask you and then they'll write it down.
So the server will ask you what you want to order and then we'll write it down.
And the order is what you have decided to eat.
So that's the food that you order.
Now this next phrase is very, very handy, especially if you're in a country that maybe
you don't know the dishes well or if you're in a restaurant that you want to see what
they recommend.
You can just say, do you have any recommendations?
So this is a way to ask the server what's good.
So what he thinks is good or what the restaurant serves very well.
So you could say, I've never been to this restaurant before.
Or maybe even, you know, Marco, we're having dinner and I know that you really like Italian
food and I don't know much about Italian food.
So I can ask you, do you have any recommendations?
So this is a way of asking what is good here.
What is delicious in this restaurant?
What's good to eat.
So three phrases there for you.
Why don't we take another short break and let's listen to the dialogue for the last
I, uh, I'll have the horse tripe.
So talking about pasta.
Now one thing before you mentioned that all these different types of pasta, they're basically
the same thing.
They're just different shapes, right?
That's how you distinguish them.
Well, yeah, they're, they're basically made from the same ingredients.
And so you have, most of them are kind of a yellow color, but sometimes you have pastas
that are a dark, like a brown or a green that depends on what kind of things you put into
the dough.
But generally they're the same ingredients, but they are different shapes.
Like they have curly ones and they have long ones and short ones.
So how do you pronounce, uh, we said penne in, uh, in English, in American English, but
in proper Italian, it would be penne.
So you, you, you double pronounce the consonant.
What about fettuccine?
Oh, it's fettuccine.
Um, in, in American, we say, uh, fettuccine.
Like fettuccine Alfredo is a very common American Italian dish, but in Italian it'd
be fettuccine.
So you might hear it differently.
And what about spaghetti?
Spaghetti.
Oh, you pronounce the double T as well.
So, uh, you said that, uh, obviously there are a lot of other types of pasta.
What about this pasta that's, uh, I think it's made of spinach.
Yeah, that's, uh, that's just a spinach pasta.
So they put the spinach in the dough.
Um, but you can also find very many, um, shapes like the angel hair pasta is very popular.
That's the one I was saying is it's almost like hair.
It's so thin.
It's very, it's long as well.
What about those little curly tubes?
Um, you, they look like penne, but they're kind of curved.
They look like little, uh, ends or you have, um, macaroni, macaroni, elbow macaroni.
We call them in America and they look like your elbow on your arm.
So we call them elbow macaroni.
What about the ones that are, um, they have like a spiral, they kind of look like springs.
Those are called fusilli.
Fusilli.
And you also have one that's very special.
This is my favorite pasta, by the way.
It's called orecchiette.
Oh, what is this?
Orecchiette.
And they look like your ear.
And that's what that means in Italian.
It means your little ear.
So ear pastas.
And what about ravioli?
This is probably one of the most, uh, famous, uh, dishes.
Ravioli.
What, what is this?
A ravioli is like a square.
It's like a square pasta.
But it's more like a pocket or a pillow.
And inside you have ingredients like meat or cheese usually is very popular.
So you have this cheese inside this little, this little packet.
This little, yeah.
This little dough.
It's very soft and very warm.
And then on top sometimes people like to put butter or tomato sauce.
It's really delicious.
So that's the main difference, like, this was obviously, all the pastas that we mentioned,
they're just, uh, they don't have anything inside them.
No, they're just dough.
And a ravioli is a special kind of pasta that's like a, it's almost like a dumpling in a way.
It's, it's stuffed.
It has something inside.
It has things inside.
Really interesting.
I think Italian cuisine is among one of the most famous foods in the world.
And, uh, well you should let us know if, what is your favorite Italian dish?
Our website is EnglishPod.com and when you're there you could find out what our favorite
dishes are.
My name is Catherine and for those of you who have been following, this is the very
last episode of our 10-part series about giving a presentation in English.
That's right. This is part 10 where we are going to receive questions from the audience.
So this is called a Q&A session or question and answer session. Let's take a listen to
our dialogue. We'll be back in a moment.
Well everyone, I'm sure you'd like to join me in thanking Michael for what was a really
inspirational presentation. Sincere thanks, Michael. Now I'm sure many of you will be
keen to ask some questions, so I'd like to open up a Q&A session. Please raise your hand
if you have any questions at all. Yes, Janice, go ahead.
Yes, thank you, Jonathan. I would just like to go back to the comment Mr. Ford made in
regards to our competitors, particularly Orange. Now as you know, Orange has established themselves
as the market leader in the high-end laptop market. How does Mr. Ford expect to compete
with a company that has such a huge reputation and huge resources?
Well Janice, first of all, thanks for a very good question. I think you have hit the nail
on the head actually. Orange are the global leaders precisely because of their size and
power. But although we can't compete in terms of size, I do believe we hold an advantage
in terms of dedication to customer service. Yes, I admit this is a David and Goliath battle,
but don't forget who won that contest.
Mr. Ford, could you elaborate on actual technical details of the X420 a little more?
I'd love to, but I think we're a little pressed for time right now. However, Jonathan has
all the technical specs for you on the PowerPoint presentation, which you can look over in your
own time.
Mr. Ford, one final question. Would you like to join me for a game of golf this Sunday?
All right, we're back. So now let's take a look at some words on Language Takeaway.
Well, at the beginning of today's dialogue, Jonathan said, I'm sure many of you will be
keen to ask some questions. What does this word keen mean?
All right. So to be keen to do something, which basically means that you want to or
would like to do something.
Right. Are you keen? Would you like to do it? Are you interested in doing it?
Now, this is a very British form of addressing something, right?
That's right. This is very British. We don't really say this as much in America, but you
can. People will understand you. I would say, I'm sure many of you would like to ask some
questions and so you could say that both ways.
That's right. That's right. Okay. So many people want to ask questions and Jonathan
said, so I'd like to open it up to a Q&A session. So the series of words here, to open it up
to a Q&A session. What does that mean?
To open it up. It means the discussion. So he would like to invite people to ask questions.
So I'd like to open it up for questions mean I would like to give you guys the opportunity
to ask.
So to open up a discussion or to open up a conversation, right?
I would like to open this up to you guys.
Okay. Now, one of the audience members asked about another company, which is their competitors
and said that they have a huge reputation and huge resources, this competitor. So what
is this word reputation?
Reputation is important. A person can have a reputation, but a company can also have
a reputation. Now, reputation means the way that other people talk about you. Okay. So
he has a good reputation means people say good things about him. Or the media like newspapers
and websites, they say good things about him. But if you have a bad reputation, it means
people are saying bad things about you.
Right. Okay. So that pretty much sums it up a reputation, what other people say about
you or how other people see you. So maybe if a company like this has a huge reputation,
it means that it's very well respected and people talk very good thing and people talk
well about this company.
Right. Now, another question came along and they wanted to know a little bit more about
the technical details of this product that they are introducing. And Mr. Ford said that,
you know what, right now we don't really have time, but I'm going to leave all the technical
specs on this PowerPoint presentation and you can look at it later.
Okay. So specs, this is something you'll hear very, very often, especially in technical
areas, but it means specifications or details. So maybe I have a computer and I know it's
an IBM computer, but I don't know the specs. I don't have the details. So that's something
that you would want to find out if you have a problem or you want to look into it more
closely. And so specs.
That's right. Okay. So these are the specs. Now, why don't we take a break? Let's take
a look at our dialogue again and we'll be back in a bit.
keen to ask some questions. So I'd like to open up a Q and A session. Please raise your
hand if you have any questions at all. Yes, Janice, go ahead.
Yes. Thank you, Jonathan. I would just like to go back to the comment Mr. Ford made in
regards to our competitors, particularly Orange. Now, as you know, Orange has established themselves
on the head, actually. Orange are the global leaders precisely because of their size and
Mr. Ford, could you elaborate on extra technical details of the X420 a little more?
Alright, we're back. So now let's take a look at some of those phrases on Fluency Builder.
The first phrase we have here is one that I really like and I use very often. It's,
I think you have hit the nail on the head.
That's right. To hit the nail on the head. So this is a very common phrase, which basically
means I think you got it exactly right.
Okay. So think about a nail that you're hammering something, you have a hammer in your hand.
It's very easy to miss, but boom, when you hit it, hit the nail on the head, it means
you have it exactly right.
That's right. So this was actually a response to one of the questions because it was a very
good question and it had a valid point. So this is why Mr. Ford said you hit the nail
on the head. This is exactly right. I completely agree with you.
After that though, we had this interesting phrase. He said, I admit this is a David and
Goliath battle.
Okay. So now this is obviously, he's speaking metaphorically, right?
That's right. So David and Goliath, that's actually a story that we often talk about.
It's a biblical story, so it comes from Christianity and David and Goliath fought, but David was
very, very small and Goliath was a monster. He was very big. And so everyone said Goliath
will win the fight, but David won the fight. And so this is an example or a story that
people often use when they say, listen, it may be the case that you think the big giants
will win, but actually the small man or our small company will win.
That's right. As you said, we many times make reference to this, even not in the biblical
sense, but it's just the size. Maybe we're a small company, we're going to fight this
big company. So we say it's a David and Goliath battle or even athletes, maybe two boxers.
One is bigger than the other. So they'll say it's a David and Goliath boxing match.
Okay. Now when we got the questions about the technical details of the computer, Mr.
Ford said that we are a little bit pressed for time right now. That's why we can't really
answer that question.
That's right. And so to be pressed for time means that you don't have a lot of time. You
are in a rush.
That's right. So if you are pressed for time, you don't have too much time. You can't, you're
in a hurry basically.
So I could say, Hey Marco, can you come here and look at this thing on my computer please?
I'm sorry. I'm a little bit pressed for time right now. I'll take a look at it in an hour.
Okay. So those are all of our phrases from Fluency Builder. Let's take another listen
to our dialogue and we'll be right back.
Hello everyone. I'm sure you'd like to join me in thanking Michael for what was a really
inspirational presentation. Sincere thanks Michael. Now I'm sure many of you will be
as the market leader in the high end laptop market. How does Mr. Ford expect to compete
but don't forget who won that contest. Mr. Ford, could you elaborate on actual technical
details of the X420 a little more? I'd love to, but I think we're a little pressed
for time right now. However, Jonathan has all the technical specs for you on the PowerPoint
presentation which you can look over in your own time.
Alright so that was part 10 of our 10-part series about presentations. We took a look
at many different aspects where you can take it as an example as we talked about computers
and marketing, but you can more or less have an idea of how a presentation should go and
the type of vocab you can use. That's right, and I think that this particular
dialogue today was very, very useful because a lot of times you're going to have people
asking you questions and filling in details, and so you can use some of these phrases to
help explain exactly what your presentation was about when people do have questions.
That's right. So we hope that you enjoyed this series and we would like to hear from
you if you have any other suggestions about a series of dialogues or a series of lessons
that we can do. We had one about a job interview, all the steps and everything, how a job interview
would go. We just had a series about presentations, so maybe you can give us some feedback or
some ideas of what you would like to learn. Let us know. Our website is EnglishPod.com.
We'll see you there. Alright, bye.
My name is Catherine and we're going shopping today at EnglishPod.
Today we are going to the store because we want to return a product.
So maybe the product that we bought had some problem and we want our money back.
about what's going on.
Hi, I would like to return this TV.
Sure, do you have a receipt?
Yeah, here you go.
Actually, I also want to return this keyboard.
May I ask what the reason for returning these products is?
The TV flickers a lot when I am watching a movie and at times the image is not very clear.
And what about the keyboard?
I spilled some coffee on it and now it won't work.
I'm sorry ma'am, but we can only exchange or refund defective products.
We cannot take responsibility for misuse or damages.
I don't know why they make these things so delicate anyways.
So now let's take a look at some of those key words on Language Takeaway.
So we've got a great bunch of words for you here today.
The first three are nouns and then afterwards we've got a couple of adjectives to describe
those nouns.
But first up, we have the word receipt.
So we want to return the television and the worker there asks us if we have the receipt.
Okay, a receipt is a small piece of paper that you receive from a clerk or a server
after you buy something.
So if I buy a TV, I will have this small piece of paper that says that I paid $500 for the
So usually they will ask you for the receipt to see when you bought the product and if
you bought the product at that store.
So the receipt has all sorts of information, date, time, method of payment, cost, all those
And it's very important if you ever want to return something.
Now later on in the dialogue, the character explains why he wants to return the TV.
Now Marco, why does he want to do that?
Well, he has a problem with the TV when he's watching a movie.
Basically the image is not very clear.
So this is the keyword image.
So image can mean a couple of different things.
You might hear the word image to mean a photograph or a picture like on a computer.
But in this case, the image is how well you can see the images on TV, the things on TV.
So on TV, it's like you're seeing many, many images all at once or very rapidly together.
So maybe if you can't see clearly, you say that the image is not clear on the TV.
So if it's fuzzy, like there's gray and black, the image is not clear.
You can also say that, you know, I really like my new TV.
The image is very clear.
And not only are we returning a TV, but we're also returning a keyboard.
A keyboard, a key is something that you can push.
But a keyboard is this thing that you use with your computer to type words.
So many of you who are using the website as we speak are using a keyboard and a mouse.
So these are probably one of the two most well-known objects when you're using a computer.
And keyboards come in many different shapes and sizes.
You can buy French keyboards and Russian keyboards.
So keyboard is the general word for this tool.
So we are returning the keyboard and the clerk explains that we can only return it if it
is defective, if the product is defective.
So this is one of those adjectives I talked about a minute ago.
Adjectives describe things.
So my keyboard is defective or this TV is defective.
That means it doesn't work.
So we have a defective product.
It's not working properly.
It has some problem.
And well, the guy was complaining that he didn't understand why these things like the
keyboard are so delicate.
Delicate is something you might see written on the side of a box when you receive a package.
Something that is delicate breaks very easily.
So you have to handle with care.
So for example, glass is very delicate.
It can break easily.
Glass is delicate but stones, a big rock, that's not delicate.
Let's review everything and listen to our dialogue.
I would like to return this TV.
Do you have a receipt?
The TV flickers a lot when I'm watching a movie and at times the image is not very clear.
I'm sorry, ma'am, but we can only exchange or refund defective products.
So now let's take a look at a couple of phrases we've picked out for to be exact on Fluency
The first verb we have today here in Fluency Builder is the main verb in today's dialogue,
to return.
So I would like to return this TV.
So when you want to give back a product, you don't say I want to give back or anything
You say I want to return this product.
Well, it's not just giving back.
It's giving back and getting your money back.
So to return means that you bring back the product and the store will give you back your
And he wanted to return the TV as we mentioned because the image was not very clear, but
he also mentioned that the TV flickers a lot.
So what is this to flicker?
To flicker is another verb and flicker is something that things with light do.
The light flickers, the TV flickers.
It means the light comes on and off, on and off, on and off.
So dark light, dark light.
It's not very steady.
It's not like there's a light or dark.
And so this is very annoying when you're watching TV because it goes light, dark, light, dark
and it's hard to see what's happening.
So it's basically just imagine someone is turning on and off the light all the time.
That's the same thing that's happening with the TV.
It flickers.
Or like when a light bulb in your lamp, when a light bulb is dying, it flickers.
So we wanted to actually return these goods and the clerk explained that we can exchange
or we can refund defective products.
These are two important verbs.
Exchange means to trade one thing for another.
So when I go to a foreign country, I exchange money, right?
I can exchange Japanese yen for American dollars.
But at a store like an electronic store, I can exchange my TV that I don't like for maybe
a really good MP3 player or something like that.
So that's what happens usually if maybe your TV is broken or it had some problem, you exchange
it for a new one, right?
But maybe you don't want the TV anymore.
Maybe you changed your mind.
So you want to get a refund.
So refund, you hear this word fund, it has to do with money.
A refund means that the store will give you all your money back.
So if I refund my TV, I give my TV to the store, the store gives me $500 or whatever
the money for the TV was, and I can buy anything else anywhere else.
So this is what happens when you get a refund, very different from exchanging the goods.
And finally, the clerk explained that they cannot take responsibility for misuse or damages.
So remember this as a phrase.
This is really important to take responsibility.
It means that if something goes wrong, you will take responsibility for it.
You will handle it.
So for example, the store says that it can't take responsibility if something is broken.
That means that they won't pay you back money.
So if you buy a TV and you accidentally get it wet or you get water inside and this is
why it gets damaged, then the store cannot take responsibility for this damage.
Or you could say the other way around.
You could say, if you're at the office and you make a mistake on a report, you say, listen,
boss, I'm really sorry.
I take full responsibility for this mistake.
You can punish me or you can make me do it again.
But I take responsibility means that I say it's my fault.
You're guilty.
Let's listen to our dialogue one last time and we can review everything we've just learned.
So returning goods is a very useful thing if you maybe bought a TV at a department store
or an electronic store, then you would want to return it if you had some problems.
Now, how easy or difficult is it to do?
Because in theory, in the dialogue, it seems like it's really easy.
It depends on the store, of course.
Some stores make it easier to do this.
Some stores make it harder.
I can tell you in most stores, if you don't have a receipt, it's probably very difficult.
But a lot of stores have something else that they sell you or give you when you buy something.
It's called a warranty.
And this is something that will help protect you if you take the TV home and you have a
That means that they will come fix it or they will give you a new one without any questions
about what happened.
Now, not only can you return goods such as TVs, electronics or maybe clothes, but in
some cases also things that you buy at the supermarket, like maybe chicken.
I've heard that maybe sometimes you buy chicken and you open it up that same day and it's
gone bad.
I've never had that experience, but I think it makes sense.
It depends where you buy it, of course.
Obviously at a supermarket and you show the receipt or maybe milk.
Maybe that's gone bad sometimes or yogurt.
Well, because they probably shouldn't sell it if it's bad.
If you tell them that they sold you bad milk, they'll give you a new one.
So that's called an exchange.
You would exchange the bad one for the good one.
You wouldn't get your money back.
Maybe, maybe not.
So that's all the time we have for today, but this is actually a very interesting topic
because it has to do a lot with customer service.
So let us know what your experience is with customer service, with returning something.
Is it very easy?
Very difficult?
Actually some stores don't even accept returns.
They say once you buy it, you cannot return it.
All sales final.
Are refunds or exchanges common where you come from?
And have you ever had a bad experience where you bought something and it didn't work when
you got home?
Thanks again.
My name is Katherine and this is our 300th lesson here at EnglishPod, so it's a special
But today we're talking a little bit about dating.
Today we're going to talk about dating now in a little bit of a less conventional way,
a new type of dating, very modern with using technology.
Using technology, that's right.
So let's listen to today's dialogue and we'll be back in a moment.
Do you want to hang out tomorrow?
I have a date.
With who?
This girl I've been chatting with for the past couple of months.
She's really cool and she's driving over here this weekend.
You mean you met her online?
I signed up for a website called match.com and it's great.
You fill in all your details and preferences, like if you are a smoker or if you have any
pets.
Then you find people that have similar characteristics and you can email them or chat.
That's kind of weird.
What if she's a psycho or something like that?
It's the same as meeting people anywhere and dating them.
I'm just tired of going to bars or being set up for dates by my friends.
I think this is a really cool alternative, especially if you are a bit shy.
I guess it does seem logical.
I'll have to check it out.
Now, let's take a look at some of these key words that we've picked out for you on Language
The first word is a word that you're going to hear English speakers say all the time,
especially if they're Americans.
Cool is our first word.
This guy described this girl that he is seeing as really cool.
She's really cool.
What does that mean if I describe someone as a cool person?
A cool person is someone who you like.
It's a good thing.
Someone who is cool, I think of as relaxed and interesting and someone who maybe has
lots of ideas or things to say.
If you say that a person is cool, you're saying that you like that person.
What if you say something is cool, like Paris is really cool?
Paris is cool.
It's a cool city.
That means it's an interesting city.
It's something that you like.
Maybe you're trying to recommend someone to go there.
You can also say that movie was really cool.
So again, it means you liked it.
So talking about dating, this friend was a bit surprised when he said that he met this
girl online.
So online, where is this place online?
It's in cyberspace.
So online means on the internet.
And we often use this when describing things.
So EnglishPod is an online English learning site.
So anything that is in the internet, in cyberspace, you say that is online.
So our website is online.
Or maybe you have pictures online.
I have many photographs online.
Or I like to meet people online.
So continuing on, we talked about a website that obviously that's online where you find
people and talking about preferences.
You mentioned that you can state whether you are a smoker or if you have pets.
So what is a person that's a smoker?
Well, many of you have probably heard the term to smoke before.
I smoke cigarettes.
I smoke.
But a smoker is a person who smokes cigarettes.
And so I could say that I want a non-smoker if I'm looking for a boyfriend.
Because I don't want someone who smokes.
But maybe if you do smoke, you can say I'm looking for a smoker, someone who does smoke.
So Jen was a little bit concerned saying, well, that's weird.
What if this girl is a psycho or something like that?
A psycho.
Now, maybe you've heard of the movie Psycho.
But psycho is something that we use in English to say that someone is really crazy, almost
scary crazy.
It comes from the word psychopath, right?
And a psychopath is someone who is crazy but also very dangerous.
So obviously when we use this word, we're describing someone as being a little bit strange
or maybe even a little bit dangerous.
So we don't want any psychos to come and talk to us online, right?
So he went on to explain how dating is just the same online as it is offline.
And that he thinks it's a really cool alternative, even if you're shy.
So something is an alternative if you have different options.
Maybe dating by going to a bar and meeting someone is what normal people do.
But an alternative to that would be dating online.
It's another option.
So the word alternative is a second option, another option.
For example, if I want to go have Italian food tonight, but you don't want to, I'd say,
Hey, Marco, well, can you give me an alternative idea?
That is the other option.
So a lot of words in this very interesting dialogue.
Stay with us.
We'll be right back where we'll take a look at Fluency Builder.
And she's driving over here this weekend.
I signed up for a website called Match.com and it's great.
And then you find people that have similar characteristics and you can email them or
chat.
All right, we're back and we've picked out five key phrases for you.
Let's check those out on Fluency Builder.
All right, the first phrase we've got here is one that we often use in English, spoken
English to talk about seeing our friends.
Okay, so the first person says, do you want to hang out tomorrow?
To hang out.
So let's hang out.
We never hang out anymore.
Well, to hang out is it's hard to define because you can do many things when you're hanging
But basically it means friends being together.
So watching a movie, listening to music, chatting, these are all examples of hanging out.
So maybe if you get together with your friend, just sit in the living room and talk, you're
hanging out.
Or you could go drive a car together and you're hanging out, you're talking.
So to hang out is to be social, is to talk to your friends.
To spend time together.
And he said, wait, oh, I can't because I have a date.
Okay, to have a date.
So a date is a romantic appointment with someone that you want to go out with.
But you have a date.
This is something you have.
I have a date that night.
So this is actually a very important part because as you said, it's a romantic appointment.
So if you have to go to the doctor and he's not your boyfriend or anything like this,
you don't say I have a date with the doctor.
No, you say I have an appointment with the doctor.
But if it's romantic, you say, oh, I want to get my hair done because I have a date
tonight.
Right, I have a date.
I want to look nice for my date.
And then he goes on to explain that this date that he has is with a girl that he has been
chatting with.
Okay, so the verb here is to chat with, chat.
Chat just means to talk to, but in internet terms, to chat with means to talk to on the
So maybe you use a program like MSN or Google Gchat to talk to somebody online.
That's called chatting.
So I think everyone has done this at one point or another when you are online chatting via
MSN messenger or any of these chat clients.
So very, very common thing.
But remember to add the chat with.
I am chatting with my friends.
Yeah, I don't like to chat with people while I'm at work.
So now this guy explained about the website match.com and he said that he signed up for
this website.
Okay, another really key verb when you're talking about internet things.
So for example, if you want to come to EnglishPod, you can sign up for a free trial.
That means provide your information.
All right, start to use.
So it applies for things online and offline.
For example, in the real world or offline, you can sign up for a cooking class.
Or last week, I signed up for a dance class so I can learn how to dance.
And then to finish off, the guy explained that he's tired of meeting people at bars
or that his friends set up dates for him.
Okay, so he doesn't like to be set up.
To be set up, remember that B. To be set up.
It means someone else is doing this to you.
So Marco, I want to set you up with my friend.
That means I want to take you and my friend and make you have a date.
So this is exactly what it means.
To set someone up or to be set up is to have them go on a date with someone else.
All right, so I don't like to be set up because I like to know the person I will have a date
with before we go out.
But when you're set up, someone else makes the decision for you.
Okay, so a lot of interesting things here.
Why don't we take a look at our dialogue one last time and we'll be right back.
Wow, with who?
Yeah, I signed up for a website called match.com and it's great.
All right, so talking about setting up, this is another word that comes to mind when your
friends set you up for a date is a blind date.
Okay, so a blind date is not a date with two blind people.
A blind date is a date that you go to when you don't know who the other person is before
you go.
So my friend's mother loves to set people up on blind dates.
She's a matchmaker.
She makes couples.
And so she will call one person and call the other person and then she'll make them have
a date.
She sets them up and then they have this date, a blind date.
A blind date, that's right.
And actually what you're doing with this technology now that you can use a website to find and
meet people who are also looking for romance, it's very interesting.
It's very modern obviously because now we have the technology to do it.
And many people actually have very successful or very great love stories of how they met
online, chatting or while playing a video game online or many different things like
Well, the thing that I like about it, and I have to say I've never done it, so what
I like from hearing about it is that like Match.com, you save a lot of time.
It seems that way.
Because you get to tell the person, hey, I don't like people who smoke.
I don't like people who have pets, but I really like people who play video games.
And so you find people who are like that and then you can get to know that person better.
But I think it's hard when you're going on dates, especially your friends, they set you
up and you have nothing in common.
You have no interests that are in common and that can be really frustrating.
So it seems like online dating is a new type of efficient way of dating because you preliminary
already filter out everyone or everything that you don't like about a person and you
find someone that has your same or similar likes.
But that's modern day, right?
A lot of people I know have dated using these websites and have been very successful.
They've been married.
Wow, it's amazing.
So actually this is a great thing.
Let us know if you have any friend who's found their significant other, husband or wife via
online dating or if you've tried it, maybe you can let us know how it is.
Don't forget to sign up if you don't have an account and we'll see you there.
Carmichael
My name is Catherine and today we're talking about a very popular kind of movie.
That's right. Today we're talking about Twilight and all the creatures that you can find in this new movie.
Okay, so the name of the movie is Twilight. Let's take a listen to today's dialogue.
We'll be back in a moment to talk about what's going on.
You want to go to the movies tonight? Sure. What's playing? The new Twilight movie.
Twilight? As in the vampire movies? No way am I watching that.
I don't understand why everyone is so excited about these films about vampires. It doesn't make sense.
Of course it does. It's like a modern tale of Romeo and Juliet.
You have a couple that is in love but can't be together because they're so different.
Add in the fact that immortality and superhuman strength is really sexy and there you have it.
Plus the cast is hip. Young people that make the movie even more enticing.
I don't buy into that. I think it's just a fad.
Pretty soon this will pass and everyone will be into werewolves or zombies.
Alright, we're back. So now let's just jump into some vocab.
Let's take a look at what we've chosen for you on Language Takeaway.
Okay, so on Language Takeaway today, Marco, we have three different kinds of creature or monster.
That's right. So if anyone knows about the movie Twilight, it's mostly about vampires.
That's right. So vampires are a kind of immortal creature.
So vampires are a kind of imaginary creature that like to suck people's blood.
They have long teeth.
That's right. So they look like people and they go out at night and they drink people's blood.
And they can't stand in the sunlight because they will die if they're in the sunlight.
That's right. Alright, so we have vampires.
And also another type of imaginary creature that we find here is werewolves.
We can find werewolves.
So we have the word wolf. A wolf is an animal.
But a werewolf is a man or a woman who turns into an animal when the moon is full.
Right. So you are a man or a woman by day.
But then at night when there is a full moon, you transform into a wolf.
So you are a werewolf.
And we have one other kind of monster here.
This is a very disgusting kind of monster called a zombie.
Alright. Also very popular in the movies, you have zombies.
So they are people who are dead but they are still alive.
That's right. So they can't think. All they want to do is eat other people.
And they are usually very, very stupid and you have to cut their heads off to kill them.
That's right. So zombies are also a very popular type of creature in these movies.
So we have three creatures. Vampires, werewolves and zombies.
But now let's move on to some of the other vocab that we found.
When the friend was explaining about the movie and how it's very cool, she said that the cast is hip.
Ok. So something that is hip is also very cool.
So a hip person is someone who is really interesting or cool or maybe up to date, current.
Right. Very popular.
So for example, you can also talk about a place, a restaurant or a club as being very hip.
That's right. So you can say, these days, bell-bottom pants are not hip anymore.
They were hip in the 1970s.
That's right. So they are not cool, they are not popular, they are not up to date.
Now moving on to the end of that paragraph, we see that the explanation continued in saying that
the movie makes it even more enticing having a hip cast and a sexy theme.
So something that is enticing makes you want it. Ok.
So an enticing movie attracts people.
So I find warm apple pie very enticing. It makes me want to eat it.
Ok. So something that is enticing basically makes you want to have it or it makes you desire it.
Alright. And our last word for language takeaway when the friend was kind of skeptical and said,
you know what, I think it's just a fad.
Ok. Something is a fad if it is a passing trend.
So it's not always popular. It's only popular for a short time.
So the word is fad, F-A-D. It sounds very similar to fat but it's not. It's a fad.
Fad. So we can say that Twilight is a fad. It's something that's popular now but that might not be popular in two years.
Exactly. So it's something that's very popular now but maybe later it won't be like maybe for example Harry Potter was a fad.
Exactly. So that's language takeaway for today but don't go anywhere.
We still have some great phrases for you coming up in Fluency Builder.
You want to go to the movies tonight?
Sure. What's playing?
The new Twilight movie.
You have a couple that is in love but can't get married.
It's a modern tale of Romeo and Juliet. You have a couple that is in love but can't be together because they are so different.
Alright we're back. So now let's take a look at a couple of phrases we've picked out for you on Fluency Builder.
The first phrase that we have today is related to this idea of going to the movies.
And so one of the characters today said, sure I want to go to the movies. What's playing?
That's right. Now this question is a key question and you can use this whenever you want to know what movie is playing.
What movie is currently being shown at the theater or at the cinema.
Okay so what movie is playing. There are many movies playing or there are no good movies playing tonight.
So a movie plays at a theater.
Exactly. So you want to know what movie is playing? You say, what movie is playing tonight?
Alright. So now for our next phrase. This is actually going back to the qualities of vampires.
A couple in the dialogue described vampires as having superhuman strength.
Okay so in this case super means more than. So superhuman strength is more than what's normal for a human being.
So maybe a human can pick up a table. But superhuman strength means that if I have it, maybe I can pick up a car.
Or something that's very unusual. They're very heavy.
That's right. So superhuman strength. We're talking about how strong you are. And then you can also mix it up with other qualities of a person.
So for example you can have superhuman speed. You're very very fast.
Superman is someone who had both superhuman strength and superhuman speed.
That's right. So it's a way to describe a person having a quality that's more than normal.
And for our next phrase, after superhuman strength and something that's really sexy, that person says, and there you have it.
So why do you end that sentence with, and there you have it?
And there you have it means, and that's the explanation why.
So let's think of the question. The question is, why do people like these vampire movies?
And the other person said, well vampires are sexy and they're immortal and they have superhuman strength.
And there you have it. So that means, and that's why.
Okay. So it's usually this phrase, and there you have it, you have to explain something or give a couple of ideas before you use it.
All right. And exactly. And the key here is that, and there you have it, comes at the end of that statement.
Well, you know, why is Jim popular?
You could say, well, he's funny, he's smart, he's good looking, and there you have it.
Right. Perfect. So you're basically saying, and that's the reason why.
All right. And for our last phrase, when we were talking about a fad, the person said, pretty soon this will pass and everyone will be into werewolves or zombies.
So this might seem a little bit confusing. What does it mean by everyone will be into werewolves and zombies?
Okay. So let's take a look at this as a phrase. To be into. I am into something. You are into something.
This means I am interested in. Okay. So I could say, I am into books and movies. Marco, what are you into?
So if I say, I am into surfing and bungee jumping.
I would say, it sounds like you're interested in, or it sounds like you like sports, extreme sports.
So you can be not only into activities, but you can be into a specific type of movies. For example, I'm really into horror movies.
And I could say, I'm not into horror movies. I am into romantic comedies.
Okay. So it's another way of saying that you enjoy it or you like it, or you realize some type of activity.
Exactly. All right. That's it for Fluency Builder. Let's take another listen to today's dialogue and we'll be right back.
Of course it does. It's like a modern tale of Romeo and Juliet. You have a couple that is in love, but can't be together because they're so different.
Add in the fact that immortality and superhuman strength is really sexy, and there you have it.
Plus, the cast is hip. Young people that make the movie even more enticing.
I don't buy into that. I think it's just a fad. Pretty soon this will pass and everyone will be into werewolves or zombies.
All right, we're back. So obviously the dialogue revolves around Twilight and vampires, but mostly it's all about, as we said, something that's hip, that's current, that's popular now, but many times is also a fad.
That's right. So let's think. What was a fad from the 1980s?
I think the 80s, the fad was, maybe you can talk about the hairstyles. Men and women had those big kind of hairstyles. Long in the back and very tall in the front.
That's right. So in the 80s, as far as fashion fads, things that were only popular for a short time, we had big hair and we had bright colors like electric pink and green and blue, and also those t-shirts that would change color when it was hot or cold.
Those were really cool. Those should come back.
Those were super hip. Well, now it's hip to wear 80s clothes. So it's another fad.
Right, exactly. Because then that's called that you're being, you like, what is it?
Retro.
Retro, yeah.
Yeah, retro means you like to use styles from a long time ago. So yeah, 70s style, 80s style.
And well, in the movies now, the fad before was magic and sorcerers. You had Harry Potter. Now it's turned to vampires.
That's right. I wonder what the fad will be in a couple of years. I don't think, I don't agree with the person in today's dialogue. I don't think zombies will be a fad.
There was a short period a couple of years ago when there were many, many zombie movies.
For example, Resident Evil or Shaun of the Dead.
But I wonder in the future if we're going to be seeing movies about other things.
Yeah, I imagine maybe not in these creatures. I don't know. I guess vampires have always been kind of sexy because as you know, they're immortal and...
They're good looking.
They're usually very good looking and charming and that's how they get their victims.
But it's interesting to see. Let us know. We're really curious if there are any local fads in your country because sometimes fads can be regional.
That's right. So let us know what you're into. Say, I'm into this. Our website is EnglishPod.com.
My name is Katherine and today we're talking about fear.
Today we're going to talk about phobias, different types of fears that you have.
Many people are scared of different things and that's what we're going to talk about
Okay, so let's listen to today's dialogue and find out what the people in our dialogue
are very, very afraid of.
Are you excited about your trip next month?
Yes and no.
I can't wait to go to Europe, but at the same time I'm terrified.
Well, I have aerophobia.
I have a chronic fear of flying.
I have an uncle who is also terrified of flying.
It's not that bad though.
I mean, it is pretty scary to be up in this big machine flying through the air at 700
miles per hour.
I actually have arachnophobia.
You're scared of spiders?
I actually have two more phobias, acrophobia and glossophobia.
I guess that explains why you're afraid of flying, but public speaking is not that bad.
When I get on stage, my palms start to sweat.
I get really nervous and I can hardly speak.
Well, I must confess that I am a bit claustrophobic.
I hate being in an elevator for more than five seconds.
We are such weirdos, right?
All right, we're back, so let's take a look at those phobias on Language Takeaway.
The first phobia that we have is called aerophobia.
That's right, aerophobia.
That means that you are scared of flying.
We can tell because phobia means fear of something, but it's not just a fear.
It means that if you go on an airplane, you get very, very upset.
You think that you're going to die.
Phobia is a very serious fear, but aero, like aeroplane, is the prefix.
Phobia is a fear of going on airplanes.
Another phobia that we have is arachnophobia.
Again, as you see in the prefix, arachno is related to a spider.
This comes from the origins of English.
I'm not sure if it's Greek or Latin, but arachnophobia, like arachnid, has to do with spiders.
I'm afraid of spiders if I have arachnophobia.
That is right.
Now taking a look at two more types of phobias here, we have acrophobia and glossophobia.
Let's take a look at the first one, acrophobia.
Acrophobia has to do with heights.
I don't like to be on tall buildings.
I don't like to maybe look down from heights.
That means I'm afraid of heights.
You're afraid of being at a very high altitude, acrophobia.
Now glossophobia is an interesting one because this one, you are scared of public speaking
or you get very nervous when you're in front of a group of people.
So this is actually a very, very common fear, but if it's a serious fear, it's a phobia.
So glossophobia means that when you go in front of people, you get very, very anxious,
upset, your stomach hurts, you have wet hands.
So that's a very serious fear.
And for our last phobia, we have claustrophobia.
I think it's one of the most common ones.
If you have claustrophobia, you're afraid of smaller tight spaces.
So people who, so you heard the word claustrophobic, people who are claustrophobic or people who
suffer from claustrophobia don't like to be in small tight places like elevators, for
example, tunnels.
So now you brought up an interesting point.
Our last phobia, we said claustrophobic and now we must make the difference between, for
example, claustrophobia and being claustrophobic.
So a phobia, you hear the word, you hear the ending IA, phobia, claustrophobia is a noun.
That means I can talk about, I have it, I have this fear.
But when you're talking about the adjective, something that describes you, you would have
to use the ic ending.
I'm claustrophobic.
He is acrophobic.
They are aerophobic.
Okay, so that is the adjective form.
So if I say I have arachnophobia, it means I have this fear or I can say I am arachnophobic.
So this can be used for all other kinds of phobias.
So when you learn those words, remember that there's two different kinds.
There's the IA, there's the IA, a phobia, which is the noun and ic, which is the adjective.
Let's listen to our dialogue again and we'll be back in a bit with Fluency Builder.
I can't wait to go to Europe, but at the same time, I'm terrified.
I must confess that I am a bit claustrophobic.
So we've picked out a couple of different phrases today.
So in the beginning of today's dialogue, the character said, I cannot wait to go to Europe,
but at the same time, I'm terrified.
So at the same time.
So in this case, we're saying that we are happy, but also we are scared.
So two things at once at the same time.
So this is a little bit different from when we talk about, I can do two things at the
I can walk and chew gum.
When we're talking about feelings or emotions, you say, you know, I'm happy, but at the same
time I'm also scared.
That means that I have these two feelings and actually they're opposite feelings.
Usually they are opposite feelings.
So like you say, you're happy, but at the same time you're nervous.
It's like saying on the other hand.
Now, when we talked about all these fears, we're afraid of flying, we are afraid of spiders.
We describe them as a chronic fear.
So this adjective chronic is very important because it has to do with time.
So I have a chronic fear of heights.
That means this is a fear I've always had.
And I will always have.
You can also say she has chronic back pain.
That means it comes back again and again.
It's not just one time.
It's all, it's some person's whole life.
Maybe not every day, but it comes back.
So that's, if you say you have a chronic something, you're explaining that you've had it for a
while or you will always have it.
Something usually very serious also.
And going back to one of the phobias, we mentioned glossophobia and the other person said, well,
you know, public speaking is not that bad.
It's not, it's not something to be so afraid of.
And the other person replied by saying, are you kidding?
So this is actually a way of showing some sarcasm when you're talking because public
speaking is not that bad.
The person wants to say, no, it is that bad.
It is awful.
So are you kidding as a way to say, no, I totally disagree.
So you're being a little bit sarcastic, but at the same time, you're also acting a bit
surprised.
Like, I can't believe you said that.
Like if I said, I really liked the Twilight movies, Marco.
Those movies are terrible.
So Marco does not agree with my opinion.
Now, when we're talking about public speaking, we mentioned that you get on stage.
So this is very important because this is the action to get on stage and speak.
So if you have a stage or maybe even you don't have a stage, but you're talking about performing
in front of other people, like a speech or a play, you say you get on stage and it's
important to remember this as a phrase.
So whenever I get on stage, I start to sweat.
Now you may want to add the, there you want to say to get on the stage, but it's not necessary.
It's not incorrect, but the usual or let's say more correct form would just be, use the
phrase to get on stage.
When I get on stage, I get very nervous.
You don't have to say when I get on the stage.
Or she's normally very shy, but when she gets on stage, she opens up and becomes very, very
talkative.
So that's all the phrases we've picked out for you.
Let's listen to our dialogue one last time and we'll be right back.
All right, so talking about all these phobias.
Now one of these phobias was actually made into a movie, I think in 1990.
Arachnophobia, this very chronic fear of spiders.
I remember when I was younger and this movie came out, everybody started talking about
how they were arachnophobic.
They had this horrible fear of spiders.
Did you ever see that movie?
It was terrifying.
Yes, it was supposedly some South American spider that made its way into the United States
in a box, in a crate or something.
Now, many people handle phobias differently.
Do you have any phobia?
Are you claustrophobic?
Are you arachnophobic?
I don't have any phobias and I'm not really afraid of anything.
So I'm pretty lucky that way, but I know a number of people who are afraid of heights,
acrophobic, and so that's pretty common.
And actually, if you look it up, you will find in the dictionary maybe hundreds of phobias,
people who are afraid of open spaces, people who are afraid of closed spaces, or people
who are afraid of marriage.
They even have a phobia determined for this type of person.
Now, this is going to be a challenge.
Why don't you look up a couple of different phobias and share it with us, maybe some of
the craziest ones or the funniest ones or maybe the strangest ones you can find.
So look them up, share them with us.
My name is Kathryn.
And Marco, I can tell you right now, I'm already hungry just thinking about our lesson today.
Today we have another food lesson.
Our world cuisine lesson for today is all about Mexican food.
Mexican food comes from the country Mexico, but also parts of the United States like Texas
have something called Tex-Mex.
So you're going to hear a lot about these kinds of foods there.
Welcome to Pistolero Restaurant.
Yes, I would like the chicken cheese enchiladas with a side of guacamole.
Sorry sir, but we ran out of chicken.
May I suggest our delicious beef burritos or cheese quesadillas?
Both include a side of guacamole and jalapenos.
Sure, I'll have the burrito.
Do you have nachos?
Our nachos come with melted cheese and chili.
Would you like anything to drink?
Sure, I'll have a Corona.
So a lot of great dishes from Mexico.
Let's take a closer look at some of those on Language Takeaway.
So first up, Marco, we have the word enchilada.
We have some chicken cheese enchiladas.
So this dish has chicken and cheese, but an enchilada, what is that?
Okay, so it's basically a wrap that is covered in cheese, right?
So it has a base of a flour tortilla.
So a tortilla is like a wrap, as you said.
Let's consider it as flat bread.
Very thin.
And it rolls up and it's covered with cheese and inside it has chicken.
Very, very good.
So this is the beginning, you're going to hear me say the American pronunciation, enchilada,
and you're going to hear Marco say a more appropriate.
A little bit with a more Hispanic accent to it.
So the second one we've got is guacamole.
Guacamole.
We say guacamole and this is from the avocado fruit.
Avocados are green fruits.
They have a skin.
So you take the skin off and you usually mix guacamole with other ingredients.
A little bit of lemon, onion, tomato.
Maybe a little spice.
Really good stuff.
So yeah, it comes from that fruit that you said and it's kind of like a paste, right?
Yeah, it's something that we often use as a dip.
So I can dip my potato chips or my tortilla chips in it or I can use it as a sauce.
And our next and probably one of the most popular dishes in the Mexican cuisine world
is a beef burrito.
Burrito.
So a burrito is another kind of wrap.
We have a tortilla like you said earlier and inside there are many different things.
So usually some rice and some beans and some meat, maybe beef or chicken.
So consider it kind of like a sandwich more or less.
But in a blanket instead of in bread.
In a blanket.
And then also we have cheese quesadillas.
Now also these are made from the same blanket of tortilla.
So this thin tortilla, this flour tortilla is put on top and on bottom and inside you
have some cheese, some melted cheese or other times you can have cheese and chicken.
And usually you find it's a circle but it's cut into four pieces.
So it looks like pieces of a pie.
And what you do is you heat it up in a pan so the cheese inside melts and it's very,
very delicious.
And sometimes you have this with a side of jalapeno.
This is some type of vegetable I would guess.
It's a pepper.
So this is a very, very spicy pepper that people often use to make things taste hot.
So you can see them.
They're usually green and they're very, very spicy.
So if you bite into one, it'll burn your mouth.
It will.
And sometimes people like to put these on our next dish.
What's the next dish, Marco?
We have some nachos.
This is a classic Tex-Mex dish like I was saying.
So a lot of Americans love to eat this.
And nachos are basically a plate of tortilla chips with what on top?
Usually it has melted cheese and maybe some chili like we see in the dialogue.
So it will kind of just consider a plate full of these chips.
They look like potato chips, but they're made out of flour.
And on top a lot of cheese and maybe some meat or some chili on top.
And Americans also like to put sour cream on top.
Sour cream is very popular on this dish.
So a lot of dishes, these are probably the most popular ones that you can find at most
Mexican restaurants and also in Tex-Mex style cuisine.
So why don't we take another look at everything and we'll be back in a bit with Fluency Builder.
Sorry, sir, but we ran out of chicken.
All right, so Marco, today we have only three things to talk about in Fluency Builder.
The first one is something that the waiter said to the customer.
It was to run out of.
He wanted some chicken cheese enchiladas, but unfortunately they ran out of chicken.
So the phrasal verb here is to run out of.
That's right, and we heard the past tense.
So unfortunately, we ran out of chicken.
This means that we no longer have chicken.
We sold all of the chicken.
So for example, if you're in your car and all of a sudden you run out of gasoline, it
means your car will stop running.
That's very bad situation.
So to run out of means to not have any more.
So you ran out of money.
Maybe you have no more money.
That's another bad situation.
So instead he ordered a burrito that included a side of guacamole and jalapenos.
Okay, so the reason we included this is because it's important to remember this as a phrase,
a side of.
So this burrito comes with a side of guacamole or this burrito has a side of beans.
So a side of means a small portion, a little bit.
So the important part of a side of is that it doesn't come in the dish or inside the
burrito let's say.
It just comes separately on a separate little plate.
Or it can come next to the main dish.
So if the main dish is tacos, you can say I want tacos with a side of black beans.
You would get the black beans in a little bowl next to you.
But that's not the main thing.
So a side of.
Now for our last phrase, when we talked about the nachos, they came with melted cheese and
chili.
So what do we mean by they come with melted cheese and chili?
Okay, so this verb to come with means that they have as a part of the dish.
So this is not a side.
Not like before when we were talking about a side of.
This means that in the case of nachos, the nachos have on them, on top, cheese and chili.
So sometimes if you go to McDonald's and you buy a meal, you get a burger and the burger
comes with French fries and a Coke included in the meal.
Or you can say, unfortunately, this meal does not come with a drink.
So you have to order the drink extra.
Okay, so a lot of great stuff.
Let's take another look and we'll be right back.
Hello, sir, welcome to Pistolero restaurant, may I take your order?
All right, so Mexican food, very, very delicious.
And as we see, it has a lot of cheese in most dishes.
It does, a lot of cheese and also a lot of tortillas.
So tortillas are these usually round, flat, pancake like things.
They're not sweet, they're savory.
And you usually put things in them like tacos or fajitas or burritos.
And there's two kinds, right?
So you have tortillas that are made from flour that are usually white.
And then you have corn tortillas that are made from corn and they're usually a little
bit more yellow.
So it's actually, Mexican food is very, very good, but usually it's a little bit spicy.
So if you don't really like a spicy food, you should tell the waiter or waitress to
not make it spicy.
If you don't eat spicy food, you certainly don't want to eat any jalapeno peppers.
I'm actually not really a fan of spicy food.
So for example, I really cannot eat jalapeno peppers.
See, I'm the opposite.
I love spicy food.
So I often order green enchiladas, which have a spicy jalapeno green sauce.
Yeah, they're very, very spicy.
So this is part of our mini series that we have all about world foods.
We've already taken a look at Italian food.
We have Mexican food.
Next we'll be looking at Indian food, Korean food, a lot of great international foods coming
So let us know, do you like Mexican food?
Have you ever had Mexican food?
And if we left off some kind of Mexican food like tacos, let us know.
See you guys next week.
My name is Catherine and today we're talking about someone who's very, very dirty.
That's right and actually not only are we talking about something being dirty but also
that we want to clean everything.
Okay, so you'll learn how to call someone who likes clean things in English today.
This bathroom is a pig's die.
Helen, why do you keep flushing the toilet?
I just can't stand it.
It's really gross in here.
There's a stain on the toilet seat and the floor was wet and slippery so I cleaned it.
You did what?
Helen, I know it's gross but I've seen many public washrooms that are much worse.
Why are you cleaning the countertop?
Are you out of your mind?
I can't help myself.
It's just so disgusting in here.
Helen, this is not like your own bathroom.
Just leave it to the cleaners, okay?
Hang on, I'm just going to quickly wipe the sink and sweep the floor.
You're such a neat freak.
So this girl was very much of a neat freak and we're going to take a look at that word
a little bit later on.
Why don't we go back to the very beginning and take a look at some vocab on Language
The first word we have here on Language Takeaway today is pigsty.
This bathroom is a pigsty.
Okay, so pigsty is a place where pigs live.
Now this obviously, the bathroom is not really a place where pigs live so if you call something
a pigsty, you're saying that it's very dirty.
You're saying it's disgusting.
It's very, very dirty like a pigsty.
So actually if you go to a farm and you see where all the pigs are, that is actually called
a pigsty.
Right, there's mud and dirt and yeah, that's a pigsty.
So someone who is very, very dirty, you can also call a pig.
Okay, now she was saying that the bathroom is so dirty and it's really gross in here.
Okay, so gross means something is, she doesn't like it.
It's really dirty and you know, makes her uncomfortable.
So something that doesn't taste good, you can say it's gross.
So I don't like to eat snake.
I think eating snake is gross.
So something that is gross is something that's not really nice, maybe it tastes bad or it
smells bad, something that is bad in general.
Okay, so she went on to talk about the toilet seat and that there was a stain on the toilet
seat.
Okay, a stain is usually a bad thing.
It means that there's a color or a mark that's permanent or maybe can be washed away on something.
So in this case, the toilet seat has a mark on it.
Maybe it's brown or yellow, but I can also say, I was drinking wine and I spilled the
wine on my shirt and it left a stain.
So now there's always this red part on my shirt.
It won't go away.
Okay, so a stain is a mark that usually won't go away.
So then she went on to describe the bathroom as being disgusting.
So I guess this is very similar to gross.
Something that is gross is usually also disgusting.
I can say, oh, this food is awful.
It's just disgusting.
But I can also say in this case, oh, your room is disgusting.
You need to clean it.
It's so dirty or bad or unappealing.
So something that is gross, something that is disgusting is something negative.
And then we have our keyword and the title of this lesson for today, a neat freak.
Her friend says, you're such a neat freak.
So a neat freak is someone who likes things to be very clean.
And so a neat freak does not live in a pigsty.
A neat freak does not like to be in pigsties.
A neat freak likes things to be in order and organized and clean.
So maybe somebody that's cleaning all the time or that's very, very organized, you can
say that that person is a neat freak.
He is a neat freak or she is a neat freak.
Now it's not necessarily a good thing to be a neat freak, but it's not terrible either
to call somebody a neat freak.
You can say, hey, are you a neat freak?
That means, are you really concerned about cleanliness?
So a lot of great vocab.
Take a look again at our dialogue and we'll be back in a bit.
There's a stain on the toilet seat and the floor was wet and slippery, so I cleaned it.
Helen, I know it's gross, but I've seen many public washrooms that are much worse.
Just leave it to the cleaners, OK?
I'm just going to quickly wipe the sink and sweep the floor.
So the first thing we want to talk about today is this phrase, I can't stand it.
So this is our neat freak talking.
She says, I just can't stand it.
So if you can't stand something, that means that you can't tolerate it.
It means I don't like it.
I don't want it anymore.
I need to change it.
So for example, if a bar is too loud, you say, I have to leave.
I can't stand it.
It's too loud in there.
Or if you are next to me all day and you do tap, tap, tap, tap, tap with your pen, I say,
Marco, stop it.
And then she went on to explain or to justify why she was cleaning the public restroom.
And she said, I can't help myself.
It's just too disgusting in here.
So this means that I cannot control my actions.
OK, I cannot control what I do.
And so in some cases, like with a neat freak, the person really needs everything to be clean.
And so she says, I can't help myself.
I have to clean.
OK, so it's a phrase like this.
Don't try to separate it and try to define what help and help yourself.
It's more of a phrase saying, I can't control myself.
I can't control my actions.
Or in the case of another person, you say, she can't help herself.
She can't help himself.
Right, so maybe you'd like to smoke.
And you're smoking all the time.
And you say, stop smoking.
You say, I can't help myself.
I have to smoke.
Yeah, I have to smoke.
OK, and for our last phrase, she said, hang on.
This means wait.
Wait a moment.
Yeah, so this is a really common phrase we hear in English.
It's something that you'll hear all the time in a pretty relaxed environment, not maybe
in school.
But if someone says, OK, I'm going to go.
And the other person wants to say something to you, say, hang on.
I have to tell you this thing.
So you wouldn't really use it with your boss or a customer.
You wouldn't say, hang on a second.
No, you would say that with a friend or family member, things like that.
OK, so it's a very informal way of saying, wait a moment.
So the formal way is, please wait.
Please wait.
And the informal way is, hang on.
Or hang on a sec, which is hang on a second.
That's all the words we have for today.
Why don't we review our dialogue one last time?
Ugh, this bathroom is a pig's die.
All right, so talking about cleanliness and being neat, what type of person are you?
Are you a neat freak?
Do you keep everything very clean and ordered?
I'm not a neat freak, but I'm also not a pig, not a slob.
I like things to be very organized.
But I'm not really concerned about cleaning so much.
I'm too lazy.
So there's a difference for me.
In my house, I know where everything is, but maybe there's clothes on the floor and there's
books in the bathroom.
So I'm in the middle.
No, I'm not really a neat freak per se, but I do like everything to be very clean, on
the other hand.
So I can't really stand it when things are...
If things are out of order a little bit, that's okay, but if things are dirty, that really
gets to me.
But I'm not the type of person that has folders with all my bills in one folder or labels,
or even when I was in school, I didn't have my notebooks in order.
So we're the opposite.
But I hate things that are dirty.
Well, let us know, are you a neat freak?
You can talk about yourself all over that lesson comments area.
And if you have any other suggestions or comments, we're always there as well.
And thanks so much for watching.
My name is Catherine and today we're going to be talking about a very fun game.
Today we're going bowling, a very popular sport amongst many people and so we're going
to take a look at how you play this sport and all the vocab related to this great game.
Alright so let's take a listen to our dialogue and we'll be right back.
Alright, so the first thing you need to know about bowling is that you should never cross
that line where the lane begins.
Because they polish and oil it to make the ball slide down.
If you step there you'll slip and fall.
Okay so I got my bowling shoes, my ball, our names on the scorecard, so now how the heck
do I play this?
You throw the ball down the lane and try to knock down all the pins.
If you do, that is called a strike.
If you don't knock them all down on the first try, then you get a chance to get the spare.
After 10 frames we add up the points and see who has the most.
300 is a perfect score but very hard to get.
Okay I'm going to give it a go.
Oh no, my ball went in the gutter.
I told you, it's harder than you think.
Now let a pro show you how it's done.
Alright we're back so now let's take a look at some of that vocab on Language Takeaway.
So the first word we have today in Language Takeaway is lane.
That's right, a bowling lane.
So a lane, that is where you actually play this game.
That's right a lane is also a word for like a road, a small narrow road.
So in bowling this is the flat surface, the floor that's long that you roll the ball down.
That's right, okay so that's your lane.
So as you said you roll the ball down the lane and you try to knock down the pins that
are at the end of the lane.
That's right so pins are, they're a little bit heavy, they're usually white and they
have, they're wide at the bottom and narrow at the top.
They almost look like wine bottles.
And the goal of the game is to knock these down, to make them fall on the ground.
That's right, okay so that's why you are using, that's why you are throwing the ball down
the lane to knock down these pins.
Now if you knock all of them down on your first try, that's called a strike.
A strike, that's right.
So that means all ten pins fall down on your first try.
But sometimes you don't get a strike, you maybe knock down eight pins and then later
on your second try, because every person gets two tries, on your second try you knock down
the last two pins.
Now what's that called Marco?
So if you knock all of them down on your second try, that's called a spare.
Okay strike, usually you write it with an X, that's on the scorecard and a spare, which
is two tries to get all ten pins, that's a slash.
A spare.
And if you don't get all of the pins in two tries, you still get points.
So if you knock down eight pins, you get eight.
Or if you knock down four pins, you get four.
And you put your score on your scorecard and now each player usually gets ten frames or
ten different opportunities to knock down all the pins.
Alright so usually these are boxes on the scorecard and you can play ten frame bowling
or also five frame.
But it's important to remember that each frame gives you the opportunity to bowl two times.
Alright so you get those two tries.
So really it's twenty total tries to knock down these pins.
And now if you did really well and on every opportunity of each frame, you got a strike,
that means that you would get a perfect score.
That's right a perfect score, that means that you made no mistakes, you knocked down all
the pins on the first try.
And now obviously down the lane, it's not as easy as it looks because to the sides of
your bowling lane, you have this kind of a path that's to the bottom.
So if your ball goes in there, you can't get it out.
So remember like I said earlier, a lane is also the name of a place where we can walk
or drive.
It's like a road.
Well we have gutters which are on the sides of these roads and also in bowling gutters.
They're lower and normally on the streets, they're for water but in bowling, they're
the places on the right or the left side where your ball will fall.
And if your ball falls into the gutter or it rolls into the gutter, you will hit no
pins.
I think that's the main thing.
If your ball goes in the gutter, you don't hit any pins at all.
It just goes straight down and you don't hit anything.
So it's really sad when you bowl badly and you get a gutter ball we call it.
All right, so let's take a look at all this vocab again.
Let's listen to our dialogue and we'll be back in a bit with Fluency Builder.
So the first thing you need to know about bowling is that you should never cross that
line where the lane begins.
If you step there, you'll slip and fall.
So I got my bowling shoes, my ball, our names on the scorecard.
So now how the heck do I play this?
After 10 frames, we add up the points and see who has the most.
300 is a perfect score, but very hard to get.
I'm going to give it a go.
My ball went in the gutter.
I told you.
It's harder than you think.
So we've picked out three different phrases for you.
So the first phrase that we have today is something that you're going to hear a lot,
although I want to remind everyone this is very informal.
So we heard someone say in the dialogue, so now how the heck do I play this?
So how the heck do I turn this computer on?
So how do I turn this computer on means I don't know, please help me.
But how the heck means I really don't know.
I really need your help.
I really don't understand what's going on.
I need someone's help.
Like how the heck did this happen means I absolutely did not expect this to happen.
I'm very surprised.
It's actually a not very polite phrase to use, but at the same time, it's not terribly
in plight.
It's in the middle.
But it's very informal.
So now the person understands how to bowl, how the game works, and he says, okay, got
I'm going, I'm gonna give it a go.
I'm gonna means I'm going to, and this is very informal.
Gonna is a way to say going to, I will.
But the phrase here is give it a go.
What does that mean, Marco?
Give it a go.
So if you're gonna give it a go, it means that you're going to try.
So I'm gonna try.
So we could say this.
Now that we know how to play the game, let's give it a go.
Let's try to play because we've been talking about it, but we haven't been doing it.
To give it a go means to try to do something.
And that's basically it.
If maybe you're watching a game on the street and you want to try maybe a card game, you
say, okay, I want to give it a go.
I want to give it a go.
Now the very last phrase is the last phrase of our dialogue.
The character says, now let a pro show you how it's done.
So how it's done, this let me show you how it's done, because this person is saying,
I'm a pro.
Let me show you how it's done.
It's a very interesting way of saying something in English.
What is the real meaning of this phrase?
He's basically saying, now let me show you how to do it.
Okay, the correct way.
So basically he's saying, you didn't do it very well.
You didn't bowl very well.
You're new.
Let me show you how professional people bowl.
Let me give you an example.
Maybe you and your friend are making a cake and you don't really know what you're doing.
So your friend says, move over.
That means the proper way to do it, the correct way.
So Marco, you're not doing it right.
A very useful phrase.
And actually it can seem a little bit confusing because you're using the verb there, done.
So it may seem a little bit weird, do, done.
But don't worry about it.
Just take it as a phrase.
Let me show you how to do it.
Just take another listen to our dialogue and we'll be back in a second.
If you don't knock them all down in the first try, then you get a chance to get the spare.
So bowling is actually a very, kind of like a pastime in the United States.
You get together with friends and you just go bowling.
I do believe it's also considered a sport.
So many people play professionally or semi-professionally.
But for me, it's always been a very social game, something you do with a group of friends.
You go out.
And especially because when you go bowling, many people can play, right?
Not obviously at the same time, but you take turns.
And so while you're waiting, people are talking and eating.
So it is a very social activity.
So maybe a group of people will rent a lane.
Remember, we were talking earlier about a lane being that one kind of strip of wood
where you roll the ball.
Well, a group of friends can rent a lane or two lanes and the four or the eight of you
can play together, each person playing one frame at a time.
And now actually, the other thing about it is it's very funny to see people trying to
bowl or maybe with the heavy ball or maybe they pass the line that we said they shouldn't
pass and they slip and fall.
So I guess that's what also makes it a little bit fun to play.
Yes, it can be a little bit embarrassing if you're not...
I'm not very good, so I'm a very embarrassing bowler.
But it's also really fun because if you go and you just have a nice time, it's a very
social game.
Well, it is.
And actually, we are really curious to know if you've ever been bowling.
I know many people who've never been bowling and they find it very, very fun.
So why don't you come to our website EnglishPod.com and leave your questions and comments there
My name is Catherine and what are we talking about today, Marco?
Today we are talking about a very interesting topic, most importantly among men who are
trying to get women's attention.
Okay, so these are some of the things that men might try to say if they are trying to
find a girlfriend or men if you're out there, things that you might want to say or not want
to say in English.
So let's quickly just take a look at our dialogue.
Let's see what's going on and we'll be back in a bit.
Let's go out tomorrow night.
We can go to a bar and try to find you a girlfriend.
I don't think that's a good idea.
I'm just not good with approaching someone and starting up a conversation.
Maybe you just need a few pickup lines, you know, to break the ice.
Pickup lines don't work.
Come on, you can just walk up to a girl and say, if you were a booger, I'd pick you first.
Come on, that's just lame.
No girl would fall for that.
Fine, then you can say, so there you are.
I've been looking all over for you, the woman of my dreams.
I think that's pretty funny.
Yeah, so you make her laugh, you make a fool of yourself a little bit and then you buy
her a drink.
I was so enchanted by your beauty that I ran into that wall over there.
So I'm going to need your name and number for insurance purposes.
So now let's explain what's going on a little bit more.
Let's take a look at some vocab on Language Takeaway.
So the first word that we have here, Marco, is a verb.
We say to approach or to approach someone.
That's right, to approach someone.
And that means to go up to someone and start a conversation, start talking to them.
So you physically walk towards someone, you go to them to start talking to them.
So you can say, I'm not good at approaching other people or he approached her in the bar
because he wanted to talk to her.
So to approach someone is to go up or get close to that person and start talking to
So now what the dialogue focuses on is pickup lines, as the title says.
So what exactly are pickup lines?
Well, I'll take this as a phrase.
You don't want to look at the individual words, but pickup lines are things that people say
to show that they are interested romantically in other people.
So if I am talking to someone and maybe he says something that is a pickup line, he's
trying to show that he's interested in me.
So usually, I guess, guys use pickup lines at bars or something to get a girl's attention
and to, as you say, show that he is interested in her, right?
And some are very creative and nice and some are very stupid and silly.
So there are many different kinds of pickup lines.
But the trick here is that they're usually lines that the person will create or will
have heard before they use it.
It's like a fixed thing.
It is usually very creative, as you say, or very funny to kind of get the girl's attention.
Now, the first pickup line that we heard was, if you were a booger, I'd pick you first.
If you were a booger, I'd pick you first.
So what does he mean here?
If you were a booger, what is a booger?
A booger is a piece of dirt in your nose.
So sometimes you have some things in your nose and you want to blow your nose to clear
Well, those things inside your nose, those are called boogers.
This is very informal English.
So I guess the technical term for it would be mucus.
Mucus.
But obviously, in English, there's also an informal way of calling it and it's called
a booger.
So the idea here is the pickup line means two things.
It means sometimes you have to take boogers out of your nose.
Some people use their finger.
But the other meaning is, if I'm interested in you, I pick you first.
And the verb here, to pick, is not to choose, but it's actually used as a verb when you're
talking about your nose.
You pick your nose or you pick a booger.
That means to actually remove.
It means to put your finger in your nose to take out these pieces of dirt.
So maybe a mom, a mother to their younger son or daughter would tell them, don't pick
your nose in public.
Moms often say this in English.
Don't pick your nose.
It's rude.
So it's a very interesting pickup line.
Obviously very funny and I guess creative.
But at the same time, the verb there, to pick, we just figured out it means something completely
So it's a joke, but it's also kind of gross.
And obviously his friend agrees and says that's lame.
Lame.
So something is lame if it's stupid or not funny.
We often say that's a really lame joke, which means I don't like that.
I don't think it's funny.
And actually people start using the word lame for many things that they don't like or they
think is not interesting.
Like that band is so lame.
Or that movie was lame.
It wasn't interesting.
It wasn't fun.
So that's basically what it means.
So let's take a look at everything we've learned again and we'll be back in a bit.
You can just walk up to a girl and say, if you were a booger, I'd pick you first.
That's just lame.
Then you can say, so there you are.
You know, you make her laugh.
You make a fool of yourself a little bit and then you buy her a drink.
How does this sound?
Now, let's take a look at some of these phrases on Fluency Builder.
So the first phrase we have here is something very, very common in business as well as in
social situations.
We say, to break the ice.
And this is something that we heard when the two boys were talking about approaching a
He said, I don't know how to break the ice.
So to break the ice is to make an awkward situation or something that's a little bit
uncomfortable, a little bit more relaxed.
So oftentimes in a new company or at a party where you don't know anyone, you have to break
the ice.
You have to make things more comfortable so you can talk to people.
So you want to break the ice.
You want to maybe be more comfortable around people.
So sometimes people use games to break the ice.
Like at your company, maybe your first day of work, they'll have games to learn people's
names.
These are ways of breaking the ice.
Or at a party, you learn some pickup lines to break the ice with women.
So we want to break the ice.
We want to use some pickup lines.
And his friend argues that pickup lines are kind of lame.
And he even says, no girl would fall for that line.
To fall for something.
This is a really important phrase and something that we say often in English.
Now, what exactly does it mean?
You're not falling on the ground.
You believe it or you consider it to be real.
So when something is a lie or it's fake or it's not totally true, but someone believes
it anyway, you say that that person, he fell for it.
So if I say, hey, Marco, did you know tomorrow's a holiday?
We don't have to work.
And I don't come to work.
I say, oh, Marco fell for my trick.
I mean, he believed it, but I was actually lying.
So to fall for something means to believe it or to think it's true.
So no girl would fall for that means no girl would actually like you because you use these
silly pickup lines.
So then he actually used another line.
He said, okay, so maybe you can use this other line.
And his friend agreed.
You can also say good one.
Good one.
We say when we want to say that, you know, I like the idea or it's a good, it's a good
Or maybe even a joke.
Someone tells a joke and you think it's really funny.
You say, oh, that's a good one.
So in this case, we heard one good pickup line and one bad one, but maybe you're at
work and someone comes up with a really good idea for marketing.
And obviously his friend explains that the whole purpose of the pickup line is to make
a fool of yourself a little bit and then, you know, buy the girl a drink or become her
To make a fool of yourself.
Now, this is something that is probably not a good thing in most cases, right?
A fool is someone who is silly, who no one takes seriously.
Someone who's not, yeah, not very serious.
So to make a fool of yourself is to embarrass yourself a little bit.
To look stupid in front of other people.
So I can say, oh, on my first day of work, I tripped and I fell on the ground and I made
a fool of myself in front of my new colleagues.
So that's basically what it means to make a fool of yourself, to embarrass yourself,
but you're doing it to yourself.
It's not that someone else is embarrassing you.
You are embarrassing yourself.
Let's try that dialogue one last time and we'll be back in a bit.
So you make her laugh.
I'm so enchanted by your beauty that I ran into that wall over there.
So looking at these pickup lines, we took a look at the first one about the booger and
What about the second one when you say, so there you are.
So what is he saying here?
What is implied?
He's basically saying that he's met her before and he's been looking for her.
So where did he meet her?
He says he met her in his dreams, but now, oh, there she is.
I was looking for you.
You, you're the woman of my dreams.
So obviously the girl can feel a little bit confused at first because, oh, why were you
looking for me?
And then he says, oh, because you are the woman of my dreams.
So it's obviously a little bit exaggerating, but it's funny.
He's joking, but he's basically saying, you know, I know you, I've been looking for you.
And what about our last, uh, pickup line where he was saying, I was so enchanted by your
beauty that I ran into that wall over there.
So I am going to need your name and number for insurance purposes.
So he's saying, you're so beautiful that I had this accident.
I walked into a wall, I hit my face.
Now that I have an injury, I need your information so that I can claim insurance so I can get
money from my insurance company.
So this is a way to ask a woman for her phone number and name.
Her name.
So it's a very clever way of, uh, of, of, of obviously breaking the ice, but at the
same time, he's trying to be funny and trying to get her number, her telephone number and
her name.
So one of the most memorable ones that I've heard was, uh, was your father a thief because
he stole the stars from the sky and put them in your eyes.
Ah, nice.
So, uh, this one is more of a compliment.
Yes, it's a compliment.
And uh, but in a funny way saying, oh, your dad stole all the stars from the sky.
Yeah, no, I've heard a number of them.
Most of them are pretty bad, pretty lame.
Um, and they're always a, a way to almost always a way to ask for your phone number.
Now as a girl, what do you think is better for a guy to use a clever, funny, but tasteful
pickup line or to just walk up to you and say, hi, my name is so and so.
You know, what's your name?
If you can be clever, if you can come up with something that's funny or interesting, then
I think it's good.
If you say something that's rude or disgusting, I think that's probably bad.
Like the booger, the booger pickup line is a bad idea.
That's an example of a bad pickup line.
But you know, if you can laugh about it, not, you don't say it seriously, but if you can
laugh about it and say, hey, you know, is your daddy a thief?
It's something to start the conversation if you're laughing.
Because sometimes it's very awkward if someone says, hey, I'm John, you know, what's your
name?
You don't really know how to react to that.
It's a little boring.
And, and approaching someone like that way can be a little bit difficult.
It's a very interesting thing.
Let us know if you have any pickup lines, if you've heard any pickup lines or used any.
We're really curious to know.
All right guys.
My name is Kathryn and today we're talking about a very, very important part of conversations
Today we are introducing a new series all about small talk.
Okay, what is small talk, Marco?
Well, small talk is just everyday conversation about maybe the weather, about how you are,
what's new in your life, etc. just plain conversation.
So something very simple and usually pretty quick.
It's what you say to people when you bump into them or when you see them at a party.
So let's take a listen to today's dialogue and find out just what kind of small talk
we have.
Hey Michelle, this is my friend James.
He's visiting Shanghai from New York.
Oh, hi James.
So are you visiting for business or pleasure?
Well, actually a little of both.
I'm meeting some business contacts but I'm also taking some Mandarin classes too.
Oh, that's cool.
Well, I'm finding the classes pretty tough actually.
But I'm having a great time in Shanghai.
It's really an amazing city.
Are you staying for long?
Only two weeks, unfortunately.
I wish I could stay longer but...
Well, listen, if you need someone to show you the sites, then just call me.
I'm having a little get-together at my new apartment next week.
So if you want to drop by then...
Let me take down your number, Michelle.
So now let's take a look at a lot of great phrases that we've picked out for you this
time on Fluency Builder.
So we've got two Fluency Builders today.
So we're going to be exploring a lot of different phrases.
We've got three now.
The first one is very, very common.
You hear this phrase, nice to meet you.
So obviously if you meet someone new, you're introduced by your friend or something, you
can just say, hi, nice to meet you.
So, nice to meet you.
Nice to meet you too.
That's what we say afterwards because it sounds very funny if you say it two times.
So, hi, it's nice to meet you.
So she went on, this girl, Michelle, to ask if he is visiting Shanghai for business or
This is an important difference, something that we often talk about in Small Talk.
You can travel for business.
That means business trips.
Or you can travel to see different sites and have fun.
That's called pleasure.
And so we often hear this phrase, business or pleasure.
So if someone comes to your country, you say, oh, so are you here for business or pleasure?
Oh, I'm here on business or I'm here to see the sites.
And so, James is actually in Shanghai doing both things.
He's on a business trip, but he's also taking Mandarin classes.
And so Michelle went on to say, that's great.
You're going to hear this all the time in English.
We say, how's it going to our friends and family?
I wouldn't say it in a formal occasion with my boss or with my teacher, but it's very
casual, very informal.
And it's a way to ask how things are.
So you're taking classes.
So this basically means how are the classes going?
How is everything?
Or you could say, oh, Marco, I haven't seen you in a while.
And that's another way of saying hi to someone or saying, how are you?
How have you been recently?
So there are two differences in that phrase there.
In this case, Michelle is asking how the Mandarin classes are going.
How is it?
Is it difficult?
Is it easy?
Etc.
But if you say to someone, hi, I haven't seen you for such a long time.
That's more of a how are you type thing.
That's like how's your life going?
So just think about what you're talking about.
Are you talking about general situations like a person's life?
Or are you talking about maybe lessons or class or job?
Okay, so we're going to take a break here.
Let's listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back in a little bit with more phrases.
I'm meeting some business contacts, but I'm also taking some Mandarin classes too.
Well, I'm finding the classes pretty tough actually, but I'm having a great time in Shanghai.
I wish I could stay longer, but...
I'm having a little get together at my new apartment next week.
So now let's take a look at Fluency Builder Part Two.
So Michelle, at the end of today's dialogue says, if you need someone to show you the
sites, then just call me.
So to show someone the sites, we talked about this a little bit earlier with that word pleasure.
What does it mean to show someone the sites, Marco?
So basically, the sites, we're talking about the different attractions of a city or place.
So the museums, maybe different buildings or different attractions in general.
What is there to sightsee?
Okay, so we are in Paris, Marco, and I say, hey, I'd love to show you the sites.
What do you expect to see?
So maybe we would go to the Eiffel Tower.
Maybe we would go to...
Notre Dame Cathedral.
And we would go see all these different sites and that would mean that you are showing me
the sites.
You are taking me to see all these sites.
And she is also having a little get together at her apartment, at her new apartment.
So what is a little get together?
This is a get together.
So think about this.
Two different words actually, get together, but it's a noun, it's a thing.
It's like a party, but it's a small party.
A little get together.
So I just, I like to think of a get together as something very casual, something very small,
sometimes intimate, where you just have three or four or five friends.
And it's, yeah, it's not as big as a party where everyone's dancing.
So a little get together is just a small group of people, you invite them over to your house,
very relaxed, very casual.
It's not really a party.
It's more of a reunion of friends.
And like we said, it's a noun.
So you say, I'm having a get together, you should come.
And she actually asks them to come, but she says it in a different way.
She says, if you want to drop by.
This is something people often say in small talk, because you don't want to say, you should
come stay for a while because that's, I don't know, they just met.
It's not in order.
So you should drop by means you should come and see and decide if you want to stay.
So basically it's also kind of a relaxed way of saying you can come whenever you want during
the, during our party or our get together.
So if the get together is 9pm to midnight, you can drop by whenever, 10 o'clock, 11 o'clock.
So to drop by is to come for a short period.
So if we're talking on the phone and I say, I'll drop by your house later on today, that
means I'm going to go to your house very quickly at an unexpected time.
Or you could use it in a question, you know, Marco, I really wanted to borrow that DVD.
When can I drop by to pick it up?
So let's take a look at our last phrase.
Michelle and James decided that they want to keep in touch and so he said, let me take
down your number.
So we're not talking about taking it anywhere, taking a number anywhere and going somewhere.
We're talking about writing something down.
So in this case, your number is your phone number.
Let me take down your number means let me write down your telephone number.
So it's another way of saying, let me write down your telephone number.
Take down my phone number.
Call me later.
So can I take down your number so I can call you later?
That's another way of asking this question.
So that concludes Fluency Builder.
Let's listen to our dialogue one last time and we'll be back in a bit.
Well actually a little of both.
So if you want to drop by then.
Okay, so this is part one of our small talk series.
We're going to have 10 episodes and in each episode we're going to be faced with a little
different situation or circumstance where we will be forced to have a very quick chat
And you're often going to find yourself in these situations if you're traveling to an
English speaking country or you're living or working in America, for example.
And so it's really important because I think oftentimes you don't learn this in class.
This is something that you have to really learn when you're in the country or learn
with us here at EnglishPod.
It's a little bit of social skills for these awkward or maybe new situations.
So if you guys have any other questions or doubts, you can find us at EnglishPod.com
Hi guys.
My name is Katrin and today we're talking about something that is a little bit private.
That's right, but very necessary to learn in English because it's very, very useful.
So we're talking about clothing, more specifically underwear.
So the clothes you wear under your clothes.
Okay, so let's just jump into the dialogue.
Let's see what happens today and we'll be back in a bit.
Lily, I found a pair of men's boxers in the laundry machine this morning.
Are they your boyfriend's?
Nah, Kevin only wears briefs.
Plus, this pair is extra small.
What do they look like?
They're light blue with thin pink stripes.
Oh, and there's Snoopy on it, which is hilarious.
Those are my undies.
All right, so a lot of great vocab there.
Let's take a look at that now on Language Takeaway.
So the first thing we have here in Language Takeaway is actually very interesting, Marco,
because we don't say one underwear or one boxers.
We say a pair of, just like pants, a pair of pants or a pair of underwear.
A pair of pants, a pair of shorts, socks.
The same thing goes for underwear.
So I really don't know why because it's one piece.
So are pants, but basically you have two holes, two places for your legs.
So anything with your legs, your socks, your shoes, your pants, your underwear, you need
a pair because you've got both sides, left and right.
All right, so you got a pair of men's boxers.
Now before we describe the underwear part, let's take a look at this other machine, a
laundry machine.
Okay, so you know what a machine is.
It's usually something that uses electricity to help us with a task or a job.
But a laundry machine is special because it helps us clean our laundry.
What kind of things are laundry?
So anything that's your clothes.
So basically it's also called a washing machine, right?
So laundry machine or washing machine, same thing.
It uses water and soap to wash your clothes.
Okay, so now let's get into the type of underwear here, specifically for men.
Usually we have boxers, boxer shorts.
So shorts means that they're not long, they're short.
So boxers or boxer shorts as you say are usually pretty loose.
They're not very tight and they're longer than the other kinds of underwear we have.
Okay, so boxers are a type of underwear that men wear under their clothes and as you say
they're pretty much shorts.
But they're called boxers or you can call them boxer shorts.
Now I guess the classic or the common form of men's underwear are called briefs.
Briefs, now these are smaller than boxers and they're tighter.
And they are usually made out of some kind of material that stretches.
You can pull them a little bit.
And this is again a smaller version, well a smaller kind of underwear.
So boxers are more like shorts, briefs are kind of and briefs are not really shorts.
They're more like, I guess kind of like a swimming suit.
They look like a bathing suit bottom for men.
Okay, now, that's it, right?
Okay, undies.
Okay, so both these things we could actually describe as undies.
So undies is a common spoken language way of saying underwear.
Okay, so it's very casual and it's usually something that we say with our family or friends.
Especially moms like to say this with their kids.
Alright, honey, I'm going to buy you some new undies this week.
And of course, as a child, you feel very embarrassed.
Undies is a way to say underwear.
Okay, so that's all the vocab that we have for you on Language Takeaway.
Why don't we listen to our dialogue again and we'll be back in a bit with Fluency Builder.
So now let's take a look at some descriptive words in Fluency Builder.
Alright, so as you said, Marco, we have a lot of great phrases today and some words
for describing underwear.
And you can describe other things with these words as well.
The first one we have is a phrase, extra small.
Okay, so when you buy underwear, the sizes, you sometimes get small, extra small, large,
medium, but it's just a way of describing how big it is.
Right, so you know the S, the M and the L are small, medium and large.
But if you see the XS, that's extra small, it means it's very small.
Alright, we also have XL, which is extra large.
Okay, so now that we've described the size, now we're going to describe a little
bit of how they look like, the colors and maybe any characteristics.
So the first thing that we see is the color is light blue.
Okay, so we've got blue, which is normal blue.
We have light blue, which is maybe the color of the sky on a beautiful summer day.
There's also, we didn't hear it in today's dialogue, but there's another color, it's
dark blue, which is almost more like purple or black.
So this is the way of describing a color.
Now it can be for any color except white.
You don't really say light white or dark white.
Yeah, you don't.
So you could say light green, dark green, light orange, dark orange.
Okay, and now some characteristics.
They had some thin pink stripes.
So we have the word here thin.
So not fat, thin.
Pink we have the color, but what are stripes?
Okay, stripes are a very common design for clothes and you often see stripes, they're
like lines.
And so that means that you have different lines that are pink.
You often see stripes on flags.
So for example, the American flag has red and white stripes.
So as you said, there are lines and yeah, usually in clothing, you can find maybe shirts
that have vertical stripes or sometimes even horizontal stripes.
Yes, but these undies are quite unique.
They're very special because they have pink stripes.
Okay, so that's all the language we have for you.
Why don't we listen to our dialogue one last time and we'll be back in a little bit.
Lily I found a pair of men's boxers in the laundry machine this morning.
Plus this pair is extra small.
All right, so in this case, we're talking about men's boxer shorts because there was
a confusion about the boyfriend.
But women also wear boxer shorts.
It's very popular now among women.
It's usually something that women wear over their underwear.
Women don't really wear boxer shorts as underwear.
Women's underwear is smaller.
It's like men's briefs.
Okay, so if a girl wears boxers and it's usually for maybe if they're just around the house
and you don't want to wear pants and you don't want to wear shorts, you can just wear a pair
of comfortable boxer shorts.
Exactly, like they wear pajamas.
And actually, I think a lot of girls also use boxer shorts as pajamas, right?
They're comfortable and they're light and they're usually made from cotton, which is
a nice material to sleep in.
Now when we're talking about briefs, there is also another way that I've heard that they're
called sometimes, a more maybe funny way of calling them.
Some people say they're called tidy whities.
This is usually something we say to joke because in America, at least, many men like to wear,
young men like to wear boxers.
So they call briefs tidy whities.
Because usually, briefs are just white.
They're plain.
They don't have any design or any other color.
No, they're plain and they're white usually or gray and they're tight, not like boxers.
So the casual name, this is not something you want to say to your English teacher, by
the way.
The casual name or the funny name is tidy whities.
Tidy whities.
Actually, this is very interesting because with newer generations, I think men are wearing
boxers instead of briefs.
Before, I think the only option was briefs.
But now boxers have grown more and more popular and I think when you're a little kid, your
mom always buys you little briefs and everything.
But then when you're a teenager, I think you just switch over to boxers.
It's not as cool anymore to wear briefs.
I think it's the whole fact of how kids sometimes dress with saggy or baggy pants and so they
like to show their boxers underneath for some reason.
I don't really understand it.
But if you do, let us know.
We're going to have all the vocabulary and stuff on the website so check it out.
EnglishPod YouTube
My name is Katrin and if you've been listening to our recent lessons, you know that we've
been talking a lot about food.
That's right and today we have another lesson all about food from a different country.
Last time we took a look at Mexican food, Chinese food.
Now we are talking about Indian food.
Okay, Indian food is very famous for being spicy but not all of it is spicy.
Let's take a listen to today's dialogue and find out just what kinds of food you will
find at an Indian restaurant.
So where is this mystery restaurant that we're going to?
It's an Indian restaurant.
I know you have never had Indian food so I thought you might want to try it.
I am craving some type of beef dish.
Well Indian cuisine actually doesn't serve beef.
You see cows are a sacred animal, a very important element in the Hindu religion so beef is not
eaten.
So what are we having?
Chicken?
There are many amazing dishes to choose from.
We can have some chicken tikka masala which is an amazing curry.
It's a bit spicy but I think you can handle it.
I've always heard that Indian spices give a rich flavor to food.
Also we can have some naan bread which is baked in a tandoori oven.
Since you don't use any utensils to eat, you can use this bread to scoop up the curry or
rice.
What about veggies?
Oh they have a good variety of vegetable based dishes like palak paneer, vegetable samosas
or dal.
It all sounds so exquisite.
Alright we're back so now let's take a look at a couple of words and phrases here on Language
In this first Language Takeaway today, we have words that are about the kinds of food
we're eating today.
So the first one, the character said, I am craving some type of beef.
So to crave something.
Okay so that is a verb, to crave and that means that you have a desire, you really want
to eat something, to have a particular thing.
That's right but it's particular so it's something specific.
For example, pregnant women are famous for craving strange foods like pickles.
So if you say I'm craving some ice cream, you specifically want ice cream or maybe vanilla
ice cream.
And this person wants beef but unfortunately there's no beef at Indian restaurants because
cows are what?
Cows are a sacred animal so they are sacred in India.
Sacred means special or somehow important in a religious way.
For example, you could say this is a very sacred place so please don't use cameras or
phones and take your shoes off.
So the word sacred refers to something that is religious and very important for that religion.
Especially in this occasion we're talking about the Hindu religion.
Okay so the Hindu religion or Hinduism is a religion that's widely practiced in the
world and maybe most commonly found in India.
So you'll see a lot of Hindu temples in India and people don't eat beef like we said because
cows are sacred in the Hindu religion.
Okay so now in India or for Indian food, it's common to not use any type of utensil to eat.
Okay so you might be wondering what is a utensil?
I know forks, I know spoons.
Well utensil is the word that describes all forks, spoons and knives, things that you
eat with.
Okay so utensils are tools for eating and it's a very general category.
Right exactly.
So utensils are spoons, forks, knives, everything.
Chopsticks are utensils even.
And now since we don't use any utensils, you usually eat with your hand and you scoop up
the food, the rice or the curry.
Okay to scoop up, this is a verb and usually you use your hands to scoop something.
So in this case I can use a piece of bread to scoop up or to pick up some food.
To scoop up, it usually means that you somehow make a little bowl or a little figure with
your hand so that the liquid or the food will fit inside, kind of like a little scoop.
Or a little cup, that's right.
So to scoop up, scoop something up.
Alright so now let's go back, let's review this dialogue and when we come back we're
going to take a look at the specific Indian dishes found in this dialogue.
We can have some naan bread which is baked in a tandoori oven.
Alright we're back so now let's take a look at those dishes on Language Takeaway Part
2.
Oh Marco these lessons are making me so hungry.
We've been doing them for a couple of weeks now and this one is no exception.
We talked a little bit today about chicken dishes and vegetable dishes but a very general
kind of dish in Indian food is a curry.
That's right a curry.
Now this is a naan and it's a dish that has a variety of spices in it.
So there are many different flavors not just one flavor.
You can have chicken curries and vegetable curries and mutton or lamb curries but the
thing that you need to remember in Indian food is that there's usually different colors
of curry.
Red, yellow or green curries.
So the dishes are usually called curries and an example of a curry we have a chicken tikka
masala curry.
Okay so we know that there's chicken in it and tikka means that it's grilled chicken
and masala is the name of the spice or the curry, the spice that's in that curry.
So a curry is kind of like a thick sauce with pieces of chicken in it.
In this case for the chicken tikka masala.
It's a little bit spicy and it's a color red.
Alright so we've got the chicken tikka masala or masala and usually you eat this with rice
or bread but in India there's a special, there are many different kinds of bread but the
special bread we heard today was called naan bread.
Right naan bread and it's just basically a type of bread.
Now it's not like the bread that you usually have at home.
It's a flat bread so it kind of looks like a pancake almost.
It's not fluffy.
It's flat and the way they cook it is they use this special oven and they cook it inside
the oven.
Now the question is what is that oven called Marco?
The oven that we heard is a tandoori oven.
Okay so tandoori is just the name of this oven.
It's also a style of cooking in India and it's actually one of my favorite kinds of
Indian food because you have this, these many different kinds of grilled meats.
You can have tandoori chicken, tandoori mutton, things like that.
So a tandoori oven is a type of oven usually made from clay.
That's why it's called tandoori.
Now towards the end we also have some vegetarian options because as we heard in India they
don't eat beef and many people are also vegetarians.
They don't eat any type of meat at all.
So the first vegetable based dish that we heard is a palak paneer.
That's interesting actually because paneer is curd or like a cheese type of thing.
So it's usually white and comes in rectangles and paneer you can have many different flavors
of it but paneer generally is a kind of a cheese, like a cottage cheese.
And palak is actually spinach so it's a dish that it kind of looks like a thick sauce,
green sauce which is made out of spinach and within it it has little pieces of this type
of cheese.
I love this dish.
It's very very delicious.
We also have vegetable samosas.
Now a samosa, what's that?
Now this is a great dish.
This is often used as an appetizer or as a snack.
You see these on carts or on the street in India.
Now samosas are like pyramids or triangles and inside they have vegetables.
So you can have potatoes and peas or lentils, no not lentils, you can have potatoes and
peas and they're a little bit crunchy on the outside and soft on the inside and they're
very tasty.
I guess the equivalent would be to, it's something like an egg roll.
Like a dumpling.
Like a dumpling because it is deep fried.
And we also have dal.
So this is actually a type of lentil as you mentioned.
So dal is a lentil dish and it can be flavored in different ways but basically lentils are
these very very very very small round things.
They're very good for your health.
And dal is a kind of a soupy lentil dish.
So lentil is the category of this type of, I don't know if it's, it's not a grain.
It's a legume.
It's a legume exactly.
So it may sound a little bit weird but we'll post some pictures of different types of lentils
because it's like saying potatoes.
There are many different types of potatoes.
Sweet potato and all this.
And the same thing goes with lentils.
So we'll post some pictures so you can see what it looks like.
But now why don't we go back.
Let's review everything and we'll be right back.
You see cows are a sacred animal, a very important element in the Hindu religion.
So beef is not eaten.
So Indian food has a reputation of being spicy but it's very very delicious.
And you know what people always tell me, at least my Indian friends always tell me, is
that saying Indian food is like saying Chinese food.
We have some general idea but every different part of India has its own special foods.
And so what we get in America at Indian restaurants might not be the same as what we get at Indian
restaurants in India.
So I just want to say that.
But generally you can find these dishes at any Indian restaurants in America.
That's right actually if next time you're in an Indian restaurant or if you ever go,
ask them from what region or what area of India the food is from.
Because it may be Northern Indian cuisine and obviously that is going to be a little
bit different than maybe the Southern.
I think the Southern is supposed to be spicier.
And it's just like in every country.
Even in our own home countries, maybe the food from the coast or from the North will
be different from the South or the Inlands.
And I just want to make one more comment.
One of my favorite things to do that many Indian restaurants offer in America is the
lunch buffet.
So a buffet is basically a self-serve of food.
So the restaurant will put out many different dishes and you can take as much as you want
of each but you pay one price.
So it's $11.99 or something.
That's very, very good.
And yeah, so I often do this when I'm home in the States and I just, you know, I get
to pick my favorite dishes and I eat as much as I want.
And actually I think one other thing that's worth mentioning, we didn't mention in the
dialogue but Indian sweets and the tea is very, very good.
The milk tea that they drink in India is delicious and the sweets are very, very good.
They're famous for being very good and not very healthy for you.
They're very sweet.
If you're in an Indian restaurant, take note.
Look for these different things and let us know.
Do you like to eat Indian food?
If so, what's your favorite dish?
So we'll see you guys at our website EnglishPod.com and until next time.
My name is Catherine and today we have part two of our series about small talk in English.
So as we mentioned, small talk are very short, quick conversations about everyday things
like the weather and usually have this with a colleague very quickly or a friend maybe.
Yeah, maybe not someone you know very well too.
So we're going to take a look at part two.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue and see what's going on.
So Michelle, let me introduce you to Maria.
She's my colleague from Brazil.
Maria, this is Michelle.
Hi Michelle.
So what do you do here in Shanghai?
I mean, what work do you do?
I work in advertising right now.
I'm actually in the wine business.
Oh, that sounds really great.
I love wine myself.
Is this your first time to Shanghai, Maria?
No, actually I often visit.
I usually come to China for business at least once a year.
Also I love the restaurants in Shanghai.
So that's a good reason to come.
Actually, there's a great Brazilian restaurant I recommend.
I mean, the food is delicious, but the service isn't so good.
I often like to get together with friends and have a great barbecue there.
We should go there together sometime.
Wonderful idea.
I'd love that.
So now let's take a look at some of these very interesting phrases we find in this dialogue
So the first phrase we have today is from the first sentence of this dialogue.
James says, so Michelle, let me introduce you to Maria.
And the second phrase, introduce someone to or introduce you to.
Okay, let me introduce you to this person.
So Marco, let me introduce you to my friend.
And this is something that you say when you want to tell the person, look, you're going
to meet someone new.
Let me introduce you to my friend, Sally.
And this is very important because it's polite and it's a way for you to say, okay, you two
don't know each other.
Here, this is this person's name, this is this person's name.
It's very important when you are introducing people or when you're in a situation with
two people who don't know each other.
So let me introduce you to someone.
Now another key question here, I think probably one of the key questions when you meet someone
new, you're talking, small talk, short conversation, what do you do here or what do you do?
So this might sound like a very strange question.
Do you watch TV?
Do you like to eat food?
No, but this means what job do you do?
What type of work do you do?
So Marco, what do you do?
I host an English podcast.
So this is the question.
Now don't get confused and remember that this is the typical way of asking someone what
is their job.
If you say, what is your job or what is your occupation, what is your occupation?
It's too formal and it's kind of awkward.
I don't think anyone has ever asked me what is your occupation.
Now I rarely say that.
I almost always say, what do you do?
Or maybe what type of work do you do?
Or what business are you in?
So this is our next phrase actually.
If someone asks you what business are you in or what industry are you in, you would
say like in this case, Maria, she is in the wine business.
I'm in the wine business.
That means that my job has to do with selling or buying wine.
So if we replace the noun wine with something else, for example, clothing.
I'm in the clothing business or I'm in the cheese business.
You can basically change it with anything.
With any product.
I guess if you sell computers, I'm in the computer business.
Or if you have anything to do with computers, you can say I'm in the computer business.
So that's great.
I'm in the hmm business.
So now we know what the person does.
We continue asking questions.
You know, we're interested.
We want to keep the conversation going a little while longer.
We say, Oh wow, that's really great.
Then we ask, is this your first time to Shanghai?
So is this your first time to Shanghai or in Shanghai?
This means is this your first time to visit Shanghai?
The preposition here is always confusing for an ESL learner because sometimes do you say,
is this your first time in Shanghai?
Is this your first time on Shanghai?
Now we're saying to Shanghai.
So in this case or in this type of question, both are correct.
Is this your first time in Shanghai?
Is this your first time to Shanghai?
So I could also say, you know, if we're in Chicago, Hey Marco, is this your first time
in Chicago?
But I have to ask if we are in that city.
I can't say, okay, I'm in Chicago today, but Marco, is this your first time in New York?
Because we're not in New York right now.
That could be confusing.
So remember when you ask this question, you're asking about where you are today, right now.
So on that note, let's take a break.
Let's listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back with some more phrases.
Hi, Michelle.
No, actually, I often visit.
All right, let's take a look at three more key phrases on Fluency Builder Part 2.
Fluency Builder So one phrase that we heard from this when
things started to get a little bit more personal, Michelle said, I often like to get together
with friends.
So this phrase here is to get together with friends.
So to get together means to be united or go with friends somewhere.
So we could also use the phrase to hang out.
This means you're not doing anything in particular.
You're not cooking or swimming or going shopping, but it just means you're together with your
You could be doing anything.
So even if you want to ask your friend or colleague, hey, do you want to get together
after work and have a couple of drinks?
All right, that means would you like to hang out or would you like to go somewhere for
a drink?
It's very informal and it's not romantic.
It's just with friends.
So if you ask someone to get together sometime, it doesn't mean let's go out on a date.
It just means let's hang out.
Let's hang out.
Let's be friends.
Now, so they were talking about a Brazilian restaurant and James said, hey, we should
go there sometime.
Okay, we should go there together sometime is even more personal.
This is a really common phrase and one that you guys should remember as a phrase.
We should go there sometime.
That means that I would like to make plans with you to go to this restaurant.
Now, if you notice the word sometime is separated.
You have some and then apart, the other word is time.
So it's very different from sometimes.
Don't confuse it.
What we're saying here is when you have time, when I have time, we should go there.
It's almost like saying one time or in the future.
Sometimes is different.
It's like I brush my teeth sometimes.
That means that, not very often.
No, that's not true.
But I would like to go there sometime means, you know, it's a little bit vague.
I don't say when, but I would like to in the future.
And Michelle agrees.
She says, well, it's a wonderful idea.
This is another great phrase.
Remember this as a phrase.
Would you like to go see a movie?
So I'd love that.
These are ways of saying I like the idea.
So it's usually in response to an invitation or suggestion.
So let's take a look at our dialogue again and review everything and we'll be back in
So as we can see, it's very quick, small conversation, but very good phrases to talk to a stranger,
to start up a small conversation.
I think these are great too, Marco, because if you're learning English and you want to
practice your speaking skills, you're not going to have many people to talk about deep
things with.
So it's great to use with strangers or with people in your office.
And these are common, typical questions.
And they're also appropriate to ask someone.
So obviously, if you meet someone new, you're not going to ask them how much money they
make because that's kind of inappropriate in Western culture.
So what we've taught you here are very polite, very common phrases.
We hope, hope, hope that you'll go out and practice these.
If you have questions or comments, don't hesitate to leave them for us.
¡chao!
My name is Catherine and today we're talking about a very important topic.
This is about time.
So sometimes we are a little bit lazy or maybe we sleep too much and we're late to work or
a meeting.
So learn many different ways to talk about being late today.
Shall we begin?
Sorry Maggie, but we're missing a few people.
Can we hang on a sec?
Well, I did say 11 o'clock sharp and it's now five past.
I'm so sorry I'm late.
It's raining cats and dogs outside and I had to wait ages for a taxi.
Okay, James.
Take a seat quickly, please.
The subject of the meeting is the importance.
Hi, guys.
Please excuse me.
I was held up in traffic.
As I was saying, the subject of the meeting is...
Hi, Maggie.
I'm terribly sorry.
The traffic is murder out there.
Sit down, Bruno.
Now, as you're aware, the topic for the meeting is the importance of being punctual.
Who would like to start?
So now let's take a look at some of this vocab on Language Takeaway.
So first up, we have a word that we heard.
The phrase was, I did say 11 o'clock sharp.
So if you say the time, like 11 o'clock, and then you add sharp at the end, what does that
So, 11 o'clock, exactly 11 o'clock.
11, zero, zero.
Not 1101, not 1102, but 11 o'clock.
So if I say, I'll be there at three o'clock sharp.
That means you won't be there at 2.58.
You will not be there at 3.04.
You'll be there at three o'clock.
So three o'clock sharp.
So if you say the time and then you add sharp, it means at that exact time.
Now James was late.
He said he was late because he had to wait ages for a taxi.
So this might be confusing for some people, Marco, because I can say, what's your age?
But here, ages has a different meaning.
So I had to wait ages means I waited a very long time.
So the word ages means for a very long time.
It's always related to time in this sense.
So I could say, Marco, it's so good to see you.
That means I haven't seen you in such a long time.
And now the next person, Sally came in and she said she was held up in traffic.
So to be held up in traffic means to be stuck in traffic.
That means you were made late because there were so many cars on the road.
So somebody or something else made you late.
So to be held up means to be made late.
I could ask you, Marco, why are you so late?
What held you up?
That means what made me late.
It could be many different things.
It could be traffic or maybe I could be held up by the doctor.
Maybe he took longer than what I expected.
Or there's no elevator and I'm waiting for the elevator and I got held up by the elevator.
And now the importance of being punctual.
That's the topic of the meeting.
And so what is this word, punctual?
So punctual is an adjective and it describes something as being on time.
So the opposite of this word would be what?
So the opposite would be late.
So she's a very punctual student.
She always comes to class on time.
She's never late.
Punctual.
So you describe a person as being punctual or not.
Let's review all this vocab.
Let's go back and listen to the dialogue again.
Okay, everyone, shall we begin?
Sorry, Maggie, but we're missing a few people.
The subject of the meeting is the importance...
Okay, now, as you're aware, the topic for the meeting is the importance of being punctual.
Now let's take a look at some phrases on Fluency Builder.
We have a lot of really great phrases today that describe...
Well, that are excuses for not being on time or for not being punctual.
The first one we heard was actually different, though.
One of the students said, can we hang on a sec?
Hang on a sec.
So, if you ask someone to hang on, that means to wait.
So, hang on just means to wait.
So, if you ask someone to hang on a sec, hang on a sec or hang on a minute, that means wait
for a little while.
A little while.
A sec, S-E-C, stands for second.
And it's very common in this phrase.
We hear, hang on a sec or wait a sec.
Wait a sec.
So, it's very casual.
It's very spoken English, although the word sec doesn't really exist.
It's just a short way of saying a second.
And later on, we heard James come in, he was one of those people that we had to wait for,
and he said, it's raining cats and dogs outside.
It's raining cats and dogs.
So, are cats and dogs falling from the sky?
They are not.
So, this might sound very weird to you.
This does not mean there are cats and dogs falling down from the clouds, but it does
mean that it's raining a lot.
It's raining really hard outside.
So, it's a phrase used to say it's raining a lot.
It's raining very, very hard.
Raining cats and dogs.
So, Maggie is trying to continue with the meeting as many people keep coming in and
disrupting her.
So, she says, right, as I was saying, the subject of the meeting.
As I was saying.
Now, this is a really important phrase because you're going to hear this a lot in meetings
or in conversations where someone is distracted.
So, okay, we're having, oh wait.
I'm sorry, I have to talk to this person over here.
When you want to come back to what you were talking about, you want to return to the topic,
you say, as I was saying.
So, maybe you were interrupted, maybe you got distracted and you want to continue talking
about the same topic as I was saying and then you continue talking.
So, you return to the original point you are making.
And well, Bruno was the last guy to come in and he said that traffic is murder out there.
Okay, so murder, to murder means to kill someone.
But we're not talking about killing people here.
We're talking about an analogy.
We're saying it's as bad as murder.
So, in this case, traffic is murder means traffic is really awful.
It's really terrible outside.
So, in what other situation or with what other noun instead of traffic can we use this something
is murder?
The wait is murder.
So, that means you have to wait a very, very long time.
So, now why don't we go back to the dialogue.
Let's have one last review and we'll be right back.
So, hi, everyone.
Okay, James, take a seat quickly, please.
Right, the subject of the meeting is the importance.
Okay, now.
As you're aware, the topic for the meeting is the importance of being punctual.
So, Marco, are you a punctual person or are you usually late?
For social gatherings, I'm usually pretty punctual.
For work, I'm usually very late.
I've noticed.
You're one of the last people to come in in the morning.
Yeah, usually for work, I arrive late but not like too late.
Some people may even be an hour or two or something.
A couple minutes, 15 minutes is all right.
But I do hate to wait.
If we agree to meet up at 2 o'clock and you come in at 2.30, I don't know, let's say to
the movies, then I think that's really irritating.
I'm a very punctual person and I get very annoyed when people are late to meetings or
when people come late to appointments or parties.
And I think it's different in different countries because in many different places, they have
what they call the local time.
So if you say, okay, the meeting is at 9, then everyone assumes that the meeting is
supposed to start at 9 but then everyone comes in at 9 but grabs a cup of coffee, talks
at the cooler, gets their seat, checks their email and then the meeting will start at 9.30
instead of 9.
Or for example, the transportation you will find in different countries can be punctual
or not punctual.
In Germany, their transportation is very famous for being punctual.
But in India, you will find that the trains are not very punctual.
You might wait one or two or six hours for a train.
So it's different in different countries.
I imagine that in a place like Germany, it would be considered a very bad thing to arrive
late to a meeting, for example.
Yeah, I'm curious about that.
So let us know, is it acceptable in your country to be a little bit late to a meeting or to
an appointment?
Is punctuality important?
My name is Kathryn and today we're talking about going out for a drink.
We're going to a bar and we're going to order cocktails.
So we're going to learn all about the different types of cocktails and a little bit more language
that you can use at a bar.
So let's take a listen to today's dialogue.
What can I get you?
I'll have a Cosmo, please.
Dude, you can't order a Cosmo.
That's a ladies drink.
You're embarrassing me.
It's a good drink.
It's too soft.
Order something with a little more kick to it.
I'll have a Sex on the Beach.
You have got to be kidding me.
Especially when served with a pineapple or a coconut.
I'm ordering for you.
I'll have a Scotch on the Rocks and my friend here will have a Manhattan.
Put it on my tab.
Now, this is a real drink.
This is going to get me wasted.
That's the idea.
So now, let's take a look at some of those drinks on Language Takeaway.
So in Language Takeaway today, we're going to focus on the names of drinks.
So we heard four of them in today's dialogue.
What was that first one, Marco?
The first one was a Cosmo or also called a Cosmopolitan.
So this is something if you watch the TV show Sex in the City, you will have heard before
because the girls always order Cosmos.
Now, a Cosmopolitan is served in a martini glass, right?
You've seen the martini glass.
It kind of looks like a triangle.
And it's very easy to spill.
So what does a Cosmo have?
Because obviously, a cocktail is a combination of different liquors or alcohol with maybe
juices and stuff like that.
Cosmo is a vodka drink, I believe, and it's served in a martini glass.
But it's generally considered a drink for ladies, for women.
Probably because it's a weaker drink, but also because it's popular in the media and
in movies and stuff as a women's drink.
So that's how it got that reputation.
So that's what a Cosmo is.
And now we move on to another very popular drink, a little bit more tropical.
I think everyone always has it when the Caribbean or when they're on vacation at the beach.
It's called a Sex on the Beach.
This name might make you laugh because Sex on the Beach, it's very descriptive, but it's
actually a very common drink.
And in the dialogue, he talks about how he likes to have this drink served in a pineapple
or a coconut.
So that means it's very fruity.
And I think it's a rum drink, right?
And it usually has either coconut juice in it or maybe some pineapple juice.
Very fruity.
I think they add a little bit of vanilla or even ice cream or milk or something like that.
So it's very fruity.
It's kind of like a milkshake with liquor.
I don't know that I've ever had one, but this is the part of the dialogue where his
friend says, come on, you need to buy something that's more manly.
He orders a Scotch on the rocks instead.
So a Scotch is a type of liquor.
It's a whiskey.
Scotch whiskey comes from Scotland and it's a whiskey drink.
And basically, Scotch on the rocks means Scotch poured over ice.
Ice.
So, in this case, rocks means ice.
And you'll hear this often.
Do you want that on the rocks?
Do you want that on ice?
So you don't say, I want whiskey with ice or you don't say, I want Scotch with ice.
You can just say on the rocks.
Scotch on the rocks.
So it may be if you're ordering a rum drink and you don't want it mixed with anything,
you can say rum on the rocks.
On the rocks.
And not only are we ordering a Scotch on the rocks, but we're also ordering a Manhattan.
So what does a Manhattan have?
A Manhattan is a very strong cocktail.
It has bourbon, which is a kind of whiskey.
It's an American whiskey.
It has vermouth, which is also a very strong ingredient.
It has bitters.
What is bitters?
Bitters is another kind of ingredient that is often used in cocktails to make things
bitter.
So it's not a sweet drink.
It's not a sweet drink.
Although they sometimes put a little bit of lemon or orange rind in the drink and that's
the skin of the orange.
So both these drinks are pretty strong.
They're very interesting though.
All the ones that we've seen, the Cosmo, the Sex on the Beach, they're all called cocktails.
And a cocktail has the characteristic that it usually has alcohol, right?
So cocktail is a mix of different ingredients, but it's an alcohol-based drink.
You can also get non-alcoholic cocktails.
So there is that option.
So why don't we take a break?
That's strong.
So now, let's talk a little bit more about these drinks on Fluency Builder.
So Marco, there are many different ways to talk about drinks but the most important ones
that we often discuss, especially with cocktails, is weak drinks versus strong drinks.
Weak drinks versus strong drinks.
Usually, the Cosmo or maybe the Sex on the Beach, it's considered to be a weak drink.
So it's not very strong because there's less alcohol.
Like a Cosmo has fruit juice, like cranberry juice, and the Sex on the Beach is very fruity
so it makes it less alcoholy.
And actually, those two also have one type of alcohol.
So it's not very strong.
Whereas, maybe a Manhattan has all this mix of bourbon and other drinks as well so it'll
be a strong alcoholic drink.
And Scotch on the Rocks is also very strong because it's just scotch.
You're not mixing it with anything.
There's just some ice and some scotch.
So that's a strong drink.
So obviously, his friend was saying that all those drinks are too weak.
He should order something with a little more kick to it.
So in this context, kick means strength.
So alcohol.
He wants a drink that's not weak, that's strong.
So a strong drink has more kick than a weak drink.
So can we use this with food or with other situations?
You can, but with food, it usually means spice.
So Indian food tends to have a lot of kick to it.
That means it's very spicy.
So with alcohol, it's strong.
With food, it's usually spicy.
If this rice has a kick to it, it means it's a little spicy.
So just think about kick as meaning that something is strong or has a strong flavor.
Now, when they were ordering, they didn't pay immediately because she said, put it on
my tab.
So to put something on a tab, this is really important when you're going to a bar or a
restaurant and you want to order drinks.
A tab is a bill that you don't pay immediately.
The bartender will write down all of the drinks that you have and all of their prices and
you pay when you leave.
So if you put something on your tab, you'll pay it later or when you leave.
So normally at a bar in America, you say, I want to start a tab.
That means I want to start a bill and you give the bartender your credit card and he
will keep your credit card until you leave.
So he keeps your credit card until you leave because obviously maybe you start a tab and
then you want to leave and you don't want to pay then it's a problem.
Or people get a little bit drunk and they forget they have to pay.
So bartenders now keep your credit card so that even if you forget to pay, they can charge
And now for our last phrase, he was a little bit concerned because this drink is so strong.
He said, this is going to get me wasted.
So to be wasted or to get wasted means to get very, very drunk.
To drink too much.
So if you say I'm wasted, it means I'm very drunk.
I'm very drunk.
You could say, oh, look at those, those boys over there.
They're all wasted.
They're all, you know, being drunk and sick and yeah.
So it's a very informal, very casual kind of a colloquial way of saying being drunk
or being intoxicated.
So it's, it's something we often use with friends or as you know, with young people,
but it's not something you want to use in your English class because it's not a good
thing to be.
It's not a good thing to be wasted.
So now let's take a break and listen to our dialogue one last time and we'll be back to
I'll have a sex on the beach.
I'll have a scotch on the rocks and my friend here will have a Manhattan.
Now this is a real drink.
So about cocktails, liquors, what is your favorite cocktail when you go out?
I almost always order gin and tonic.
That's my cocktail.
So gin is another type of liquor?
Gin is another type of liquor like vodka or whiskey.
It has a very unique taste.
And tonic is a kind of water but it has a certain flavor to it.
It has a flavor to it.
So gin and tonic usually has some gin, some tonic water and some lime.
But the tonic water is kind of bubbly.
It's bubbly.
I like bubbly drinks.
So you like champagne and stuff like that.
I am a whiskey guy and so I usually order something like this scotch on the rocks.
I never like to mix it with anything else.
And especially I really don't like having sweet drinks.
So you're a purist.
It's just that when the sweet alcohol and things that are sweet, I don't really think
go that well together.
No, I think I agree.
Although there are some sweet alcohols.
Our Italian friends will be familiar with limoncello.
It's a dessert liqueur which tastes like lemon.
Or also Kahlua which is very sweet.
It's a coffee alcohol, right?
So many people like to put Kahlua in their coffee to have Irish coffee.
And actually the alcoholic world is very vast and actually many people don't drink alcohol.
Many people may have it occasionally.
But the other interesting thing is that usually countries have a national alcoholic drink.
So for example, the Mexican national alcoholic drink would be tequila.
Or Russian or Eastern European, vodka.
So in your country, maybe you have a local or a national alcoholic drink we would be
very interested to know about.
See you.
And as you know, we've had a series going about small talk in English.
So today's lesson is a part of that series.
Today we're going to listen to two friends, two girlfriends meeting and they haven't seen
each other for a long time.
So we're just going to see how they quickly have a small conversation.
Hey Michelle, is that you?
Wow, Grace, long time no see.
Oh yeah, well, you see I got a promotion so I moved to the new Pudong office last September.
So how are things with you, Michelle?
Well, same old, same old, you know, nothing much has changed here.
Are you still seeing Chris?
No, actually we split up last month.
Oh dear, I'm sorry to hear that.
But I met a really cute guy last night at a networking party.
So well, let's just wait and see.
Good for you, Michelle.
So now let's take a look at some of the language on Language Takeaway.
So the first word we have here today, Marco, is the word promotion.
Grace says, well, you see, I got a promotion so I moved to the new Pudong office.
So she got a promotion and a promotion is work related.
That means that you got a better position.
But you didn't change companies.
So in your company, you had a job and you did well in that job.
And so your boss gave you a better job in the company.
And that's a promotion.
Okay, so she got a promotion.
Grace, when they were talking about work and now they started talking about their personal
life and Grace asked if Michelle is still seeing Chris.
Okay, so the verb here is to see someone, to be seeing someone.
We're not actually talking about eyes and looking.
We're talking about dating.
So if you're seeing Chris, it means you are dating Chris.
So that's an interesting way of describing a relationship.
So you say, yeah, I'm sorry, I'm seeing someone.
I can't date you.
I'm seeing someone else.
Or you could ask someone, are you seeing anyone right now?
That means are you dating anyone?
Do you have a boyfriend basically?
And sadly, no, they are not together anymore.
She says, actually, we split up last month.
So this is another relationship term.
To split up means to break up or to stop dating.
To stop seeing each other.
So there are two ways of seeing it, as you said, to split up or to break up.
So unfortunately, they split up or unfortunately, they broke up.
They are no longer seeing each other.
But she said she had some good news because she met a really cute guy at a networking
What is networking?
So networking is something that you do, especially in the business world.
You go to events, parties, happy hours, and you meet people.
You meet strangers and you talk about work and you try to meet as many people as you
So it's not really a social party to actually just go and meet random people.
You're trying to meet people that will be interesting for your business or maybe to
get some other ideas.
It's for a business purpose.
So perhaps in your town, you own a small business and your town has decided to have a chamber
of commerce networking party.
So you can meet other small business owners.
So that's what we have for language takeaway.
Let's go back and listen to our dialogue for the second time.
Hey, Michelle.
Is that you?
Wow, Grace.
Well, you see, I got a promotion so I moved to the new Pudong office last September.
I'm sorry to hear that.
Let's talk about these small, quick but very useful phrases for small talk on Fluency Builder.
So this first phrase is a phrase that you'll hear a lot when people greet each other but
perhaps friends who haven't seen each other in a very long time.
We use this phrase, long time no see.
Now, you look at it and it may seem like it's incorrect, right?
Because you're missing something.
Who no see?
What long time?
But this actually means I haven't seen you in a long time.
So the phrase is long time no see.
Hey, Michelle, long time no see.
That's the way that you use it.
But just take it as a phrase.
Don't try to analyze it too much.
So hey, Marco, long time no see.
And well, they're talking and she's like, well, how are you?
And she says, well, you know, same old, same old.
This is another one.
It doesn't look right.
It doesn't look wrong.
But we do say this and twice, same old, same old.
And this means nothing has changed.
There's nothing really new in my life.
The same old things in my life.
Nothing really new or exciting.
Same old.
So I could say, hey, Marco, how's the job going?
You know, same old, same old.
So nothing has changed in his job.
He has not gotten a promotion.
So now, Michelle was again describing about the guy that she met at the networking party
and she said, well, let's just wait and see.
It seems like an incomplete sentence because let's wait and see what.
So let's wait and see what?
That's the question, though.
You know, what are we waiting to see?
Well, she's basically saying we don't know how things will go, but we, you know, we'll
have to wait for the future to come before we can make a decision or figure out what's
So, for example, Marco, we're at the office and I say, how is that report coming along?
Is it, you know, were the numbers good?
And I can say, yeah, the numbers seemed all right, but we'll just wait and see.
Perhaps we don't have all the numbers yet, so we have to wait to get the rest of them.
So you're just basically saying I don't know what will happen in the future.
Let's just hope that it will be good and let's see what happens.
Let's just wait and see.
Let's go back and listen to our dialogue one last time.
And
guy last night at a networking party.
Okay so this was another part of our small talk series.
As you see, very useful and quick little phrases so you can have a very brief conversation
with maybe someone you haven't seen or a little chit chat at the office.
That's right and these are things that if you remember them, you memorize them, you
can use in almost any conversation.
Also I'm sorry to hear that or good for you.
These are really great phrases that are very, very flexible.
Actually that's a really good one.
Maybe someone gives you a little bit of bad news or something bad happened in their life.
It's very polite and a nice way of saying hey, I understand.
So we hope that you've learned something new in today's lesson.
If you have any questions about the phrases or words you've heard, please check out our
website EnglishPod.com and leave us a question on the community section or in a note.
We'll be happy to answer them.
Alright guys, we'll see you there.
��Music Playing��
Hello everyone and welcome to EnglishPod. My name is Marco. My name is Catherine and
today we're making a phone call. That's right, we are making a special type of phone call.
We're making a collect call. So, we will explain what this means. Let's listen to the dialogue.
See if you can more or less guess what a collect call means and we'll be right back.
This is the operator. How may I help you? Yes, I would like to make a collect call.
Okay sir, please dial the number. Now, please state your name. Tommy. Please wait a moment.
Hello, you have a collect call from Tommy. Would you like to accept the charges? Yes,
of course. Dad? Yeah, Tommy. What happened? Are you okay? Yeah, dad. Everything is okay.
I'm calling you because I want to know if it's okay for me to go to my friend's house
today after school. Yeah, sure. No problem. You scared me to death. I've told you to make
a collect call in case of an emergency only. Why didn't you call me from your mobile phone?
I ran out of credit and I also didn't have 25 cents for the pay phone. Sorry, dad.
Alright, so we're back. We've got a number of words and phrases to look at. Let's check
out our words in Language Takeaway first.
Alright, so as we mentioned, we are making a collect call. So what exactly is a collect
call?
Alright, well a collect call is a phone call you make when you don't have any money and
the phone company charges the person who answers the phone.
So if I call my mom with a collect call, my mom pays.
Not you.
And you can do this pretty much from any phone, right?
That's right. You can do this from any phone. Normally people use pay phones to do this.
But there is one condition that is important with the collect call. The person who answers
the phone, they have to say that it's okay that they pay. You can't just use this with
anybody.
Okay, very good. So actually when the guy was making this collect call, the operator
asked him to dial the number.
Okay, so this is an important verb that we have with making a telephone call. You make
a call, but with the number, the phone number, you actually have to dial it.
And that comes from those old phones where you don't push the numbers, you pull them.
Yeah, you have to spin the little wheel.
Yeah, there are circles and you pull the numbers and spin the wheel around. But the verb now
is to dial a number.
To dial a number. That's right. Okay, so you dial your number and well actually as we said,
you're making this collect call because maybe you don't have any money. In this case, sometimes
in your mobile phone, you have what we call credit.
This is an important word. This is a noun. You have it or you don't have it. On my phone,
for example, I have a lot of credit. But maybe if I don't have any credit, I run out of credit,
I don't have any money left, I can't make a phone call.
That's right. So this is what it means when you have credit in your phone. It means that
you have some money with the telephone company. So when you make a call, they discount it
from there. But if you don't have any more credit, you can't make any phone calls.
Exactly. So basically credit represents money.
That's right. Okay, and as you said, a collect call, you usually make it from a pay phone.
So what is a pay phone?
Okay, well, we have phones at people's houses. Those are regular phones. And we have cell
phones which you can carry around. Well, pay phones are public phones that you have to
use money in order to make a call on.
Okay, so usually you will see these at airports, for example.
Airports, train stations, any big public place where people need to use phones. They're less
common now in some places. But basically, you have to put the coins, the money coins
into the phone to get the phone to work. If you don't have any money, you can't make a
call.
Yeah, that's right. Okay, so four key words there. Why don't we take a break and listen
to the dialogue again.
This is the operator. How may I help you?
Yes, I would like to make a collect call.
Okay, sir. Please dial the number. Now, please state your name.
Tommy.
Please wait a moment.
Hello, you have a collect call from Tommy. Would you like to accept the charges?
Dad?
Yeah, Tommy. What happened? Are you okay?
Yeah, Dad. Everything is okay. I'm calling you because I want to know if it's okay for
me to go to my friend's house today after school.
Yeah, sure. No problem. You scared me to death. I've told you to make a collect call in case
of an emergency only. Why didn't you call me from your mobile phone?
I ran out of credit and I also didn't have 25 cents for the payphone. Sorry, Dad.
All right, now we're going to talk a little bit more about the phrases we found in this
dialogue on Fluency Builder.
So this first phrase is a phrase that you might encounter in many different situations,
but today's situation is making a collect call. So we heard this phrase, please state
your name.
That's right. So you have a verb here, to state your name, state your age, and that
basically means to tell us, tell me or tell us what is your name.
That's right. So if I say, hey, you, state your name.
That means I have to say my name, Marco, for example.
So you can use it for name, for age.
Yes. State your birthday, please. So this is often what we have to do when we're on
the phone with a service company. So the bank will ask us, what is your, you know, state
your birthday, please, or state your last name or state your phone number. They want
to confirm our personal information.
Okay. And well, as we heard it, so once you do all this, you make a collect call. The
person on the other side has to accept, and this is when the operator said, would you
like to accept the charges?
In this case, to accept the charges means to offer to pay. Okay. So if you accept the
charges, that means that the phone company will ask you for money when your bill comes.
That's right. So you accept to be charged with money or you accept the charges that
come with this telephone call.
And now the dad finally says, are you okay? You know, is everything all right? And apparently
it was a very trivial thing. He just called to make sure that he can go to his friend's
house and the dad said, you scared me to death.
Okay. Parents often use this phrase in English. This means you had me very worried. I was
so worried. So you scared me to death. That doesn't mean that the father died.
It means he was very, very, very scared.
Right. Exactly. So it's a phrase a little bit, obviously with exaggeration, but very
common to hear. You scared me to death. You scared me a lot.
And why did he scare him to death? Because he told his son to make a collect call in
case of an emergency only.
Okay. So this phrase in case of an emergency is a fixed phrase. You can see this on the
metro, you can see this on the bus, but also you can hear this in conversation. And so
in case of an emergency means only when there is an emergency situation, a fire, an accident,
That's right. Maybe on a train you have seen or on an airplane, you have a big red button
or a lever that says pull in case of emergency.
That means don't pull it now, but pull it if there's a serious problem.
So the father says, you know what? I told you only make a collect call in case of an
emergency. That means if there's an accident, if the boy's in the hospital, if there is
something serious happening, then it's okay to charge to make this collect call. But other
times like, you know, you forgot your wallet. That's not an emergency.
Yeah. All right. Very good. So why don't we listen to our dialogue one last time and we'll
be right back.
Hello. You have a collect call from Tommy. Would you like to accept the charges?
So making a collect call, very common thing as well. This is the scenario you will find
in the United States, for example, if you go to a payphone, you don't have any money,
you want to call your friend, the tour guide, the airport, anything, you can make a collect
That's right. And this is something that is, like I said, becoming less common with cell
phones. But generally speaking, if you don't have any money and you have an emergency situation
or you need to call someone, it's very important, then you can make a collect call. You dial
O for zero for the operator and you say, I want to make a collect call. And they will
ask you these important questions. And then what the other person hears is, you know,
Catherine would like to make a collect call.
Will you accept the charges? And you know, if you're my mother, you'll say yes, of course.
That's right. Now, as you said, payphones, they used to be all over the place and you
would have to put in a quarter. This is why the kid said that he didn't have any money
for the payphone. But now you don't really see too many payphones. Everyone's got mobile
phones.
That's right. And payphones are less and less common, although a lot of people like to use
payphones just because they're private, not tracked.
And yeah, but what I found is that the airports now, you can't use a payphone with quarters
or money. Now you got to use a credit card to use a payphone.
That's right. It's become so expensive that you have to swipe your credit card to use
the payphone. So it's a changing world, Marco.
Now, can we make international collect calls?
I don't think so. I think it's just America.
Okay. Well, this is a very interesting topic. Obviously, we will see if in your country
you can make collect calls or how do you make a call to someone if you don't have any money?
That's a good question. So let us know. Our website is EnglishPod.com.
We'll see you guys there. Bye.
My name is Kathryn and we have an unusual lesson for you today.
It's more about writing than about speaking.
Well, many times we have to write emails and if we're working in a sales environment, we
may need to write an email to a potential client.
Alright, so we're going to learn what is appropriate and what is not in today's lesson.
Melanie, can you help me with something?
We need to finalize the account with the Mexican embassy and I need some advice on phrasing
this letter correctly in English.
Sure Tracy, let me just get my laptop.
Right, all set.
Ok, so, to whom it may concern, I am writing…
Um, Tracy, I think that's a little too formal.
I know you want to be polite, but you've already made contact with them, so in English,
you can be a bit more relaxed in the opening.
Ok, more relaxed.
Hey Sally, what's up?
It's Tracy here, just…
Ok, Tracy, now it's too relaxed.
You've still got to show some respect.
How about starting with Dear Miss Cooper, I'm writing to confirm…
Great, ok.
Dear Miss Cooper, I'm writing to confirm the final quotation for the full-page back
cover color advertisement you requested for the spring issue of Viola Magazine.
The final costing, including advert design and production, comes to 45,600 RMB.
We want payment 10 working days before publication, or we will cancel the ad.
Thanks for…
Whoa, ok, back up a second Tracy.
That's too direct.
Can I suggest you say, please note that the final payment is due two working weeks before
publication.
You don't want to offend her.
Oops, ok, you're right.
Then I can just end with, all the best, Tracy.
Hmm, maybe I'd play it safe and just finish with, yours sincerely.
That's more professional.
Oh, Melanie, you're a lifesaver.
Alright, we're back, so now let's take a look at some of that vocab we heard on
We have some wonderful adjectives today.
The first one that I wanted to discuss, Marco, is formal.
Formal, that's right.
We want to be a little bit more formal when we're writing someone we don't really know
too much.
But be careful because sometimes you can be too formal.
So what exactly does formal mean?
So if you write a formal email, it's very proper, very respectful.
So proper in the way that you wouldn't use colloquial terms or phrasal verbs that you
would use with your friends.
No, a good example is writing to a lawyer or a judge.
You want to use formal language.
Even with a teacher, you might use more formal language.
But with a friend, you don't have to.
That's something else.
So when you're writing something that's formal, it's important to be polite as well.
Now what is polite?
So you want to be formal, you want to be serious, and you want to be polite.
You want to show respect.
You want to be nice, basically.
And so people can often be described as polite.
He's very polite or she's not polite at all.
And when I was a little kid, my mom used to say, it's very important to be polite.
You say thank you and you're welcome when you're talking to other people.
And that's one way of being polite.
Now also when we are describing the way that you speak to someone or the way that you write,
you can be very direct.
Now being direct means that you say exactly what you want or exactly what you're thinking.
Okay, so maybe if we're talking to this company, you say, hi, I want this.
I will pay this much.
That's maybe too direct.
You need to be a little less direct and say nice things in an email.
So maybe you want to say to someone that you don't really like the clothes they're wearing,
You say, hey, do you like my new shirt?
And if you're very direct, you would say, no, I think it's very ugly.
So maybe you would say, I don't really think it suits you very well.
Or I think a different color would be better on you.
So that's being a little bit less direct.
Now obviously, if you're too direct with someone, you may offend that person.
Alright, to offend is a verb and to offend someone means to say something that makes
them unhappy or upset or even angry.
So going back to the same example of the shirt, if you say, I think that shirt is very ugly,
that person might be offended.
Gosh.
Or maybe if you say, I think people with brown hair are so ugly and there's someone next
to me with brown hair, they say, oh, I'm offended.
I'm not ugly, but I have brown hair.
Okay, so you don't want to offend anyone by being too direct or you don't want to have
anyone feel offended.
Now for our last phrase here on Language Takeaway, we have towards the end of the dialogue, Tracy
thanks Melanie by saying, you are a lifesaver.
Okay, so don't be confused.
There is also a candy called lifesavers and she's not calling her a candy.
She's saying, wow, thank you.
You really helped me.
So when someone helps you a lot, you can call them a lifesaver.
Marco, what exactly is the object, the lifesaver?
If you've ever been on a boat, you see this big orange circle that is used to throw into
the water to help someone to prevent them from drowning.
That is called a lifesaver.
Okay, so I'm drowning.
I'm having a hard time writing this email.
I do not know what to say.
Marco, you come and help me.
I can say, oh wow, thank you so much.
You're a lifesaver.
All right, so we've taken a look at five key words there.
Why don't we take a listen to our dialogue again and we'll be back with Fluency Builder.
Okay, so to whom it may concern, I am writing...
Tracy, I think that's a little too formal.
I know you want to be polite, but you've already made contact with them, so in English, you
can be a bit more relaxed in the opening.
Okay, more relaxed.
It's Tracy here, just...
Okay Tracy, now it's too relaxed.
How about starting with, dear Miss Cooper, I'm writing to confirm...
Great, okay.
Dear Miss Cooper, I'm writing to confirm the final quotation for the full-page back cover
color advertisement you requested for the spring issue of Viola Magazine.
Thanks for...
Whoa, okay, back up a second Tracy.
Oops, okay, you're right.
Maybe I'd play it safe and just finish with, yours sincerely.
So today in Fluency Builder we have a number of phrases you can use when you're writing
an email.
Some of them are very polite and formal.
Some of them are very informal or casual.
Now this first phrase, Marco, is very, very formal, right?
You start the letter by stating, to whom it may concern.
All right, to whom it may concern.
Remember that M there.
This is a very formal phrase and we're going to take it as a phrase.
This is how you begin a formal letter.
Usually you start this letter if it's directed to maybe a company or someone not specific.
You don't know that person's name and you're just saying, you know, whoever's reading this
letter, whoever it concerns.
Well, I could say, dear Marco, but in this case, maybe I don't know who the name of the
person I am writing this email to.
It's a big company.
There are many people.
So if you don't know who you're writing to in a company or in an organization, you say,
to whom it may concern.
Now we started very formal.
Melanie said, I think it's a little bit too formal.
Maybe we should be more relaxed.
So Tracy says, okay, got it.
So how about, hey Sally, what's up?
So what's up is the kind of thing I say with my friends, you know, hey Marco, what's up?
But I would never say this in a formal situation with a boss or with a, you know, an employer
or with a, um, in more serious situation.
Especially if you're writing a, an email to a client, you don't really want to say what's
No, never.
So remember this is spoken English with your friends, but not something you would write.
Um, so the key here is that you have to show some respect.
So that's another great phrase, you show some respect.
So the key here is that this is, um, the verb is to show, right?
Not to give.
Um, you want to show respect to someone.
Well, how do you show respect?
Well, the way that you act, your behaviors.
So if I'm polite and I say, you know, Mr. and Miss and thank you and please, these are
ways to show respect.
So that's the way that you are being respectful.
You are showing respect by being very polite.
For example, in Japan, it is common to take your shoes off when you go to a friend's home,
their house in order to show respect to them.
Now, as we continue writing the letter towards the end, we wanted to play it safe and just
write your sincerely to close the letter off.
So this phrase, play it safe.
When we're talking about making a decision or taking a risk, we want to play it safe.
We want to use the less risky option.
So the key here is that the verb is to play.
Play it safe.
This means that, yeah, there's maybe a risky option and a safe option and it's better to
take the safe option.
So that's the way that you would use this phrase to play it safe, to make a decision
that doesn't have too much risk or that you know that will work very well.
And to close things off, another option to end the letter, we could say, all the best.
All the best, Tracy.
So this is a way to end a letter.
You can say sincerely or best, but it's a very nice way to end if you just say all the
best and then you say, you know, after that you have a comma and then you sign your name.
Sure, Tracy.
Let me just get my laptop.
I know you want to be polite, but you've already made contact with them.
So in English, you can be a bit more relaxed in the opening.
Hey, Sally, what's up?
It's Tracy here.
Just...
Okay, Tracy.
Now it's too relaxed.
How about starting with Dear Miss Cooper, I'm writing to confirm...
Dear Miss Cooper, I'm writing to confirm the final quotation for the full page back cover
Okay, back up a second, Tracy.
Okay, you're right.
So talking about ending formal emails or emails that you're writing to clients, colleagues,
we can say sincerely, and your name, sincerely, Marco.
You can say, all the best, best regards.
Now I've noticed that some people who aren't native English speakers, sometimes they will
close a letter, maybe even a formal letter, saying, yours truly, Marco, for example.
Is that really appropriate for a business setting or a client?
I would not use yours truly.
Maybe if you're trying to build a relationship with your client and you're very honest, but
it seems to me to be very personal.
Yes, yours truly.
So I would say in that case, use sincerely or kind regards, or regards, which are a little
bit more professional and less emotional.
If you want to have a romantic letter, you can say, all my love or love or yours truly
or yours faithfully.
This is a very important topic, I think, because many times in school we do learn how to write
letters, but usually they are more personal letters.
And so we memorize that usually at the end of the email or the end of the letter, you
say yours, Marco, or yours truly, Marco.
And although it is correct, it's not really appropriate for a professional setting.
Just a reminder, if you're signing off your email or your letter and you're at an office,
you're in your company, you want to say best or best regards or some of the things that
we talked about here today.
So if you have any questions or any other doubts, you can always find us at EnglishPod.com
My name is Catherine and today we have another episode in our series all about small talk.
Today we're going to take a look at a work setting where two colleagues maybe run into
each other and they talk very briefly about something.
Alright so let's check out today's dialogue and we'll be back in a moment.
Hi Michelle, do you need to use the photocopier?
Oh hi Jeremy.
No please, go ahead.
So how are you Jeremy?
I was talking to Linda about you only last week.
Oh I'm fine, thanks.
I'm super busy with work actually.
Did you hear about the Lawson contract?
No tell me more.
Well I was discussing the contract with Bill and he said that they met the head of Lawson's
last week.
And?
And hopefully they're going to confirm the deal on Wednesday.
Fingers crossed.
That's great news Jeremy.
Anyway, I must get back but give my regards to your wife Monica.
I will Michelle.
Speak to you soon.
Alright we're back so now let's take a look at some vocab on Language Takeaway.
So the first word for you guys today is photocopier.
Now this is something that's very common in offices.
That's right, a photocopier, also known as a copy machine or just copier.
Yeah this is something that you use to print on paper or to copy paper.
So if I have a document but I want another copy of it, I put it on this machine and it
will copy it and print it out.
So those are the ways that you know this machine by this name.
Either photocopier, copy machine or just copier.
Alright but after that we have a very interesting adjective.
This is something that we use very often in spoken English.
The phrase here Marco was I'm super busy but what does it mean to say you're super something?
So when we add the word super to an adjective, we mean that we're very, very, very busy,
super busy.
Alright so I'm super hungry.
That means you're very, very, very hungry.
Alright or I'm super woman.
Also it means that you are very much a great woman.
Alright like superman is very good at going fast and doing things and so he's super means
great or exceptional.
So in this case I'm exceptionally busy.
And moving on to the next line where Jeremy says that he was discussing the contract with
So a contract, we know what this means.
Yeah what is this?
So a contract is a document and it's something that you have to have two or more groups for
or two or more parties.
So Marco between you and me, we could have a contract.
It says that when we come to record, you will be respectful of me.
And then we will both sign.
So it's kind of an agreement between two as you said or more people and but you are promising
to respect the contract and to do what the contract says.
And if you don't do what the contract says, we have a special verb.
We say you broke the contract.
So to break, break a contract.
So Jeremy was discussing the contract with Bill and they said they met the head of Lawsons.
Now Lawsons is a company that we're just using for the dialogue.
But what does it mean the head of this company?
Okay if you think about the company as a body, the head is the top.
And in this case that would be the president or the manager or the leader.
It's the most important person.
Okay so we can also use this in our offices for example the person in charge of marketing,
the director of marketing.
We also call him the head of marketing.
Or the head of the sales division would be the manager of the sales team or whoever is
most important in sales.
Another very common example I think is the president.
Many times they call him the head of state.
Yeah the head of state.
So you can have a dinner with many heads of state.
And those could be kings or queens or presidents.
Alright so that's all the vocab for language.
Take away why don't we take a short break and listen to the dialogue again.
Hi Michelle do you need to use the photocopier?
No please go ahead.
Oh I'm fine thanks.
Anyway I must get back but give my regards to your wife Monica.
Alright we're back so now let's take a look at Fluency Builder.
So there's a great phrase here in Fluency Builder that we use when we're trying to be
polite in English.
Michelle says oh hi Jeremy please go ahead.
Okay so Jeremy asks if she needs to use the photocopier and he said no Jeremy it's okay
go ahead.
Please go ahead.
This literally means you go ahead of me but in reality she's basically saying I can wait
you go first.
So if you're going into a building and somebody opens the door before you and they say please
That means they'll hold the door and you can go inside first.
So please go ahead.
This is a very polite thing to do and if you're in line and you see someone is in a hurry
you can say this to them please go ahead.
And we also going back to the contract discussed about confirming the deal.
So you have a deal or an agreement or a contract but the thing you do to make sure that you
all agree is you confirm.
So this means you want to make sure it is actually going to happen.
And you can actually combine confirm with many different things like you can confirm
your tickets to go to Italy or can we confirm those holidays before I make my bookings because
I want to go to Italy.
So you confirm something and then Jeremy said a very strange phrase here fingers crossed
after talking about the deal.
Okay so fingers crossed is an interesting phrase.
It doesn't mean okay now go cross your fingers but it's something we say to be superstitious
because it means basically I hope so or hopefully because fingers crossed when you cross your
fingers in many Anglo-American cultures you are saying that you hope something will happen.
It's to bring good luck.
So oh gosh I really hope it doesn't rain today.
And then I say fingers crossed.
Yeah well fingers crossed it doesn't.
That means that we hope it doesn't but now that you said that maybe it will.
So I think it's kind of a superstitious belief that people have that if you cross your fingers
it will bring good luck or what you say will happen will happen or won't happen.
That's right fingers crossed.
So let's take a break now and listen to our dialogue one last time.
Do you need to use the photocopier?
So this is a very common scenario in a very in an office in a normal office setting where
maybe you meet your friend at in the kitchen or the water cooler the photocopier and you
have very small brief conversations.
That's right and you're often going to hear this called water cooler talk because you
don't want to have a long conversation about something really deep at the water cooler
but you do want to talk about you know basic things things that you have in common or work
stuff you know how's that paper coming along or how's that.
I heard you had great sales last week and so these are great short things you can talk
about with your colleagues.
Right very good and as we say it's some of the phrases in the vocab are key things that
you can use to start up a small conversation very brief to talk about you know small things
with your colleagues.
That's right so we hope that you'll tune into our future lessons about small talk and if
you have any questions or comments you're welcome to find us on EnglishPod.com.
Bye for now bye.
My name is Catherine and today we have a very complicated topic for you.
This is an upper intermediate lesson, a little bit more difficult and we're talking all about
taxes, paychecks and all the information for when you work in the United States.
It confuses me and I'm American.
So take a close listen.
We're going to listen to this dialogue one time and we'll be back in a moment to discuss
Hey, Susan, have you got a sec?
I have some questions about my paycheck.
You bet, Emily.
Pull up a chair.
Well, this is my first paycheck here in the States and there are a few things I don't
understand.
First off, what is this FICA and SUI SDI tax and why are there deductions both from
Medicare and from my health insurance plan?
OK, let's start from the top of your pay stub.
This number here represents your gross pay.
Yes, that's easy enough to understand.
Then here we have a series of deductions.
First off are the federal ones.
FICA stands for Federal Insurance Contribution Act or something like that.
It's your federal income tax.
And then there's Social Security and Medicare, which are both federal programs to help you
out after you retire or if you are unable to work.
All right, I see.
So the Medicare isn't actually a health insurance I can use now.
Below the federal deductions are the state deductions.
There's the state income tax.
And then this SUI SDI tax you were asking about is paying into an unemployment and or
disability fund that our state has set up.
But you can see that it's a pretty small quantity that they take.
Yeah, I don't mind giving them a dollar fifty for that.
So there are two separate income taxes, one at a state level and one at a federal level.
Not all states have an income tax.
Some use higher property taxes or sales taxes instead.
Well, I think everything else I can figure out on my own.
The deductions for health insurance and my 401k are pretty self-explanatory.
Thanks for your help, Susan.
All those deductions do add up and nobody's net pay is as high as they'd like.
I can understand why you'd want some explanation.
Yeah, I guess it's the same in the UK.
I just never paid much attention.
So obviously a lot of vocab there, a lot of acronyms as well, like FICA and all that stuff.
We'll take a look at that in a little bit.
First, let's start off with some language on Language Takeaway.
So when you get paid, there's a very important number you want to look at or a couple of
numbers.
These are called deductions.
Now, why do deductions make people sad, Marco?
Because a deduction is to take away or reduce.
So obviously if your salary is, let's say, $1,000 and you have $500 deductions, then
you only get five instead of 1,000.
So deductions mean what money is being taken away from you.
So that's money that's deducted for certain taxes or certain programs.
It's important to remember that deduct, to deduct, is the opposite of to add.
It means to take away.
To take away, that's right.
So Emily had some questions about her salary and so she brought her pay stub to Susan to
ask her, why are all these deductions?
Why am I not getting all my salary?
So pay stubs are very important pieces of paper.
Basically when you go to a store and you buy something, you get a receipt.
Well when you go to work and you get paid, you get a receipt for your payment.
That means that it shows you how much money you earn and all of these deductions.
So if you're paid every month, you get a pay stub every month.
If you're paid every two weeks, you get a pay stub every two weeks.
So it's basically a little receipt that tells you you have been paid and how much you were
paid.
So Susan started explaining about her gross salary and her net salary.
And these are the two most important numbers on your pay stub.
On your pay stub it will say gross pay.
Not gross like icky gross, but like total.
So in total you earn $1,000 a month, but that's not how much money you have in your bank because
the money that you earn is actually a little bit different because of these deductions
we mentioned.
So the net pay is the actual amount of money you get to keep.
So the company will pay $1,000, but with taxes and all these deductions, the actual money
that you get is less and that's called the net pay.
So it's important when you're looking at these numbers, look at your gross pay.
And then afterwards, look at your net pay.
Is that what money you actually received?
So now getting into a little bit of taxes and the type of taxes that we have out there.
Not considering the taxes for the salary, this is a different one.
We have a property tax.
So some places in America tax you on the amount of money you earn at your job, but a lot of
others like to collect taxes from different areas.
So property tax is one of those.
If you own land, if you own a house or a condo, you will pay a property tax every year.
Every year you have to pay for owning this property.
So basically you're paying the state for the land that you have or the space that you have.
And the bigger your house is, the bigger the land is, the more money you pay.
And you have to pay the same value every year or does it change over time?
It can change over time.
You hear this sometimes, property taxes are, or property value increases and so then property
tax will probably increase as well.
And what about sales tax?
I think this is very straightforward, but how does it work?
Well, it's straightforward, Marco, but I don't think they have this in many other places
China, for example, we don't really have a sales tax, so people don't have to worry about
But a sales tax is a small tax that you pay every time you buy something.
If I buy a TV and the TV is $100, it's possible that the sales tax is 3%.
I pay $103.
So that's another way that you are taxed, not on how much money you make, but on the
purchases that you make.
I can buy a lot of cool things, cars, TVs.
I'm paying more money to my state to provide services like schools and roads and things
I think we can move on now to specifically talking about the taxes related to people's
salaries or how it works in the United States.
Remember that we are talking specifically about the United States here.
So let's take a look at that now on Fluency Builder.
So one of the scary acronyms here, Marco, was FICA.
The FICA.
It looks very strange here.
What is this FICA?
Well, this is an acronym.
And remember, acronyms are words that stand for other words.
So F, federal, I, insurance, C, contribution, and A, act.
So federal insurance contribution act.
Basically, this is a federal tax.
That means that it's everyone in the country.
Everyone has to pay it, no matter where you live.
Illinois, New York, California, everyone has to pay.
And how much is this tax?
I do not know.
It's called a graduated income tax.
That means that people who earn very little pay very little.
People who earn a lot pay more.
So this is something that everyone has to pay and that's why it's called federal tax,
So federal means national and state means more local for your own state.
Now, she is obviously paying the federal tax that everyone has to pay.
And what about Medicare?
So this is not a tax per se.
This is actually a deduction that goes into kind of a fund.
You know, it's a government program.
And when you're older, when you're retired, you will receive benefits from the federal
government, from the United States government to get healthcare.
So Medicare is a kind of healthcare that is paid for by the US government.
So when you're older, you don't really have to pay for your hospital bills then because
you worked and contributed to this Medicare fund, then you can go and get treatment.
Or you pay for part of it and they pay for part of it.
So it depends on the system.
But yes, it's a way to get healthcare through the government.
And your next word is interesting because we've heard about Social Security before.
You have the Social Security card, which is basically your ID.
It states also that you are an American.
But what is the Social Security fund now that you are contributing to?
Well, basically, this is another government program that is designed to make sure that
people are comfortable when they stop working.
Because when you stop working, you don't have any income anymore.
You need money to live.
And so your whole life, you're paying into this fund and the government will then give
you the money back, some money, to basically live off of when you're retired.
And so how long do you actually have to work in order to be eligible for Social Security?
I believe you have to be 65 to be eligible for Social Security, but I'm not sure.
It's either 60 or 65.
I'm not there yet.
And actually, another one that's very similar is you have this 401K, which is actually a
very interesting name for this tax or fund.
Yeah, 401K is more of an investment.
So a 401K is something that you put money into every month or year to access later on
when you're retired.
So again, it's a kind of security for you.
If you work every day, every year for 30 years, 40 years, you want to have some money when
you're all done.
And this is basically a retirement savings plan.
So what is the difference between Social Security and the 401K, or are they the same?
I think the difference is where the money goes.
I'm not 100%.
But all of these are like, you have to give the government this money, or can I say, hey,
I don't want to, don't worry about me.
I don't need Social Security.
I'm saving all on my own.
And can I refuse to pay these taxes?
401K, yes, you can refuse.
It's not a tax.
It's just something that you can...
Usually this is not a government program.
This is something that the company that you work for will set up for you.
But Medicare and Social Security, these are things that you have to pay into.
Because even if you're rich and you have all this money, there are a lot of people in America
that don't have any of this.
And so we consider it something that we do for each other as much as for ourselves.
Because also, Medicare and Medicaid, these are programs that you can also be eligible
for even if you're 25 years old or 30 years old.
You're poor, you don't have a job.
So these are social programs.
It's very, very interesting.
You see that, obviously, this is why in movies, you see that people make fun of taxes and
how much tax in America there is and how you can't escape taxes.
But it's interesting to see how it's made up and why you are giving your money to the
government.
So let's listen to today's dialogue again.
It was pretty complicated.
So hopefully you've understood a little bit more after we've talked about it now.
Well, this is my first paycheck here in the States.
And there are a few things I don't understand.
First off, what is this FICA and SUI SDI tax?
And why are there deductions both from Medicare and from my health insurance plan?
Okay, let's start from the top of your pay stub.
So another interesting thought that came up was, well, where does the money for government
spending come from?
So because you have all these taxes that are for you, basically you have property tax or
maybe does it come from sales tax that maybe the government can make roads and parks and
stuff like this?
Remember earlier we talked about federal and state taxes.
Well, if it's a state tax like sales tax, in America I can pay sales tax in California,
but maybe in New Mexico there is no sales tax.
So this is a state tax.
And that means that the state government can use the money for state projects, parks, roads,
But then the Federal Insurance Contribution Act, the FICA, this federal tax, that is something
that's used for our military, our government.
This pays the paychecks of people in Congress, the president.
This is where all the money to pay them comes from.
And so basically the state taxes pay for state benefits and programs and the federal taxes
pay for these nationwide programs.
So that's, I think one of the most interesting things about this topic is that the United
States is like 50 small countries that kind of have their own little governments.
They have their own taxes and they have their own rules.
Like in some states you can start driving when you're 16 and others when you're 15.
And so it's like all these little small countries, but at the same time you have this one mega
country that has federal taxes and federal insurance and military and all this.
And you know, it's an interesting fact about American history that the most conflict in
our country has really come down to these two groups.
One group believes that the federal government, so that's the national government, should
have more power than the states.
And another group believes that the state should have more power.
And that is a big problem.
You know, this disagreement that we've had in America that goes back to 1776 and the
founding fathers.
And so I don't think it's something that is fixed.
You know, these things change, you know, sometimes more federal power, sometimes less, but it's
a very interesting part of American history.
And also it would be interesting to hear from our users how it works over there, because
I know that approximately a rough estimate is that around 30 to 40% of Americans' income
goes to tax, right?
About that, yeah.
So almost half of your money goes into taxes.
So I wonder how much it is in other people's countries.
Maybe they have 60% of taxes or maybe 10.
My name is Kathryn and today we're talking about something that I think a lot of people
experience especially with certain things like peanuts and cats.
Today we are talking about allergies.
So that means that we have a problem with maybe cats.
They make us sick or with certain foods.
Like a lot of people who are allergic to milk actually.
So we're going to talk about a couple of these allergies and symptoms.
So why don't we have a listen to our dialogue and we'll be back in a bit.
I keep sneezing and my eyes are all watery.
What's wrong with me?
Wow, you're not dying, are you?
It looks like you have a cold.
You should take some medicine.
I don't think it's a cold.
I feel fine if I move a few feet away from my desk.
Maybe we should put you into quarantine.
Jokes aside, I think you might have an allergy.
An allergy?
I never thought about that.
I don't think I'm allergic to pollen though and I'm desensitized to bee stings after being
stung so many times.
Ow!
Why did you chuck that peanut at me?
Just checking if you're allergic to peanuts.
I guess not.
I could have gone into anaphylactic shock.
Okay, my bad.
How about dust?
My office is full of it.
Yes, the whole office is dusty yet I only feel affected near our desks.
You brought your cat into the office?
Yeah, it's Mr. Snuffle's birthday today.
I didn't want him to be alone on his special day.
Ah, put it away.
I guess we found the problem.
You're allergic to cats.
Alright so now let's take a look at vocab on Language Takeaway.
Alright so Marco we have a number of things that might happen if you're feeling like you're
allergic to something.
The first one is my eyes are all watery.
Okay, so your eyes get watery and that means you start to have a lot of water, a lot of
tears in your eyes.
That's right but you're not sad, you're not crying.
It's just that you have this reaction that you cannot control and the water maybe comes
down from your eyes.
Right, usually your eyes get wet and watery, itchy, red, so a lot of that.
There's another thing too, this happens a lot.
You feel like you can't stop sneezing.
To sneeze.
A sneeze is something you do when the air comes out of your nose.
Out of your nose, out of your mouth, out of everywhere.
Yeah and you can't control it and sometimes it's very, very strong.
You move your head but it's something that you do when you're allergic to something like
a cat or a flower but also maybe when you smell something very, some spice like hot
pepper.
Yeah, or when you're sick, when you have a cold.
And so his friend says that maybe they should put him into quarantine.
Alright now this is a joke.
If you have allergies you don't have to go to quarantine but quarantine is very serious.
It's a place where people go when they have a dangerous or very infectious disease and
quarantine means that no one else can come in and you cannot go out.
So I think when they had the pig flu, the swine flu, many people were put into quarantine
to make sure they didn't give it to someone else.
So usually in quarantine you have to wait until you can prove that you're not sick anymore
and then you get to leave.
Alright, so they were talking about maybe the options of what he's allergic to.
He says I don't think I'm allergic to pollen.
So what is pollen and where does it come from?
Alright, now pollen is actually a very common allergy and pollen comes from flowers.
It's kind of like a special dust or special kind of thing that you see on flowers that
gets blown away.
So when it's springtime many people suffer from allergies because there's a lot more
pollen in the air.
So it's that little dust, usually sometimes yellow, that you can find on flowers and this
is actually what butterflies and bees look for.
And then he talked about, well, he's not allergic to bees and his friend threw a peanut at him
but he said it in a very strange way.
He said, why did you chuck that peanut at me?
To chuck.
Alright, to chuck.
Now this is a very spoken English way of saying something.
To chuck means to throw.
So like, Marco, why did you chuck that pillow at me?
That was mean.
Alright, so to chuck is to throw but usually to throw something strongly.
So as you said, it's very spoken English.
It's not really proper to actually write it or say it to someone in a formal occasion.
So you wouldn't say this in your English exam but you could say this with your friends.
So to chuck something.
So that's all the vocab we have for you.
Why don't we go back and listen to the dialogue again.
Oh, I feel terrible.
This office is full of it.
Ah, put it away!
Alright we're back so now it's time for Fluency Builder.
Alright, now we heard a very difficult word later on in the dialogue.
Jim said, not funny, I could have gone into anaphylactic shock.
Alright, so this phrase, to go into shock is very important.
Go into shock.
Now what does it mean to go into shock?
Well shock is something, especially anaphylactic shock, which means that I think you stop breathing
because your body basically shuts down and your throat tightens so you can't breathe.
But to go into shock means that your body will kind of stop doing its normal functions.
For example, if you fall in very, very, very cold water, your body goes into shock.
And this is something that is a physical reaction.
You see it all the time in movies I think when a nurse or a doctor or someone yells
he's going into shock, right?
That's right and they have to get the paddles and beep.
So that's what it means when you go into shock but you use this verb.
You go into shock.
He's going into shock.
That's right, doctor, he's gone into shock.
And well he said, okay, I'm sorry, my bad.
He said my bad.
What is my bad?
Alright, my bad is another phrase that comes from spoken English so be careful with how
you use it.
This is something you can use with your friends.
My bad is a way of saying my fault or excuse me, that was my mistake.
So if you do something wrong and you say, oh, I'm sorry, that was my mistake, you can
just say, oh, my bad.
Or Jerry, can we go outside for a second?
I have to talk to you.
I mean, Marco, oh, my bad.
That means, you know, my fault.
I'm sorry, I've made a mistake.
But this is very colloquial and I think it's very juvenile, right?
I think younger people use this, my bad.
My bad.
Yeah, it's younger, yeah.
That's a younger, alright.
And for our last phrase, when Jim was talking about maybe being allergic to pollen or he
said I'm desensitized to bee stings.
Alright, so desensitized, you should know automatically that prefix D means not, alright?
So it's negative.
I'm desensitized means that I'm not sensitive to, alright?
That means that, you know, if I get stung by a bee, like me, it gets big and red and
it hurts.
But this person, he doesn't have a reaction.
He's desensitized.
So there's no reaction.
There's no red.
There's no swelling.
I think you see it a lot for people that maybe live in an area where there are a lot of mosquitoes.
And if we go there, we're going to get bitten and it's going to be itchy.
But people who live there, they've been bitten so many times that they probably don't even
feel it or probably don't even get bitten anymore.
They desensitize.
Or you could say that I'm desensitized to loud noises.
I live in a city and there's a metro near my apartment.
I can hear it.
And so I'm desensitized to the noise.
That means I don't really notice it anymore.
It doesn't bother me.
So that's all the vocab and phrases we've prepared for you today.
You're not dying, are you?
I don't think I'm allergic to pollen, though, and I'm desensitized to bee stings after being
Yes, the whole office is dusty, yet I only feel affected near our desks.
Put it away!
Alright, so speaking about allergies, we always talk about the common ones like pollen, dust,
and you also mentioned about food, like somebody who cannot drink milk.
They're allergic to milk.
We have a special name for this, actually.
Someone who cannot drink milk or dairy products like ice cream is called lactose intolerant.
So if you're lactose intolerant, it means that your stomach is very upset after you
have dairy products because lactose is basically dairy.
And there are some people also who are allergic to seafood, for example, fish or shrimp or
any type of seafood.
And also people who are allergic to gluten.
Now, gluten is a very common product that is found in breads and cereal, things like
And so people who have an allergy to gluten actually have to change their diet quite a
Yeah, they have to look for things that are gluten-free, which is very hard because apparently
it's in everything.
So if you have one of these allergies, you can find dairy-free on a box or gluten-free
on the box.
And specialty food stores will have these labels.
And so are you allergic to anything?
Sometimes here in China, I feel like I'm a little bit allergic.
I have allergies when the seasons change.
But at home, no.
I have no allergies.
No allergies.
And I'm very lucky, I think, because I can't imagine if I had an allergy like to peanuts
or to seafood, which not only would be a shame because you can't have these foods, but if
you accidentally have it, it could be life-threatening.
Like my dad, who is allergic to bees, would go into anaphylactic shock if he were stung.
And so you have to be very careful because you never know when you'll have an accident
Maybe you guys want to share if you are allergic to anything.
Maybe you are allergic to certain types of foods, chemicals.
Some people are allergic to certain types of shampoo, for example.
Or fabrics like cotton.
So if you want to share with us, let us know at our website EnglishPod.com.
My name is Catherine and today we have another episode in our series about small talk.
So small talk Marco is what exactly?
Quick little conversation that you have maybe with a colleague or friend or even with a
stranger maybe in the elevator.
Just about the weather or some small little topic.
So you're not talking about the meaning of life.
You're talking about the weather or food.
So let's check out today's dialogue and we'll be back in a minute to talk more about what's
Oh dear miss, you are soaked.
Wow, it's really raining heavily outside.
Yes, it sure is.
I had to run here from work.
I need to rush as I'm on my lunch break.
Well please, why don't you go ahead of me in line.
I'm in no hurry.
Oh, that's so nice of you.
My pleasure miss.
Actually, could you recommend what to eat here?
I've never been here before.
Well, the avocado sandwich is delicious and it's the healthiest thing on the menu.
Personally, I think the beef salad is the tastiest choice.
I usually get that.
Also, the milkshakes are the best milkshakes in town.
Well, thanks for the suggestions.
No, don't mention it.
So, as we saw in this dialogue, it's a small talk conversation with two strangers who are
actually buying some food.
So this is something that could happen if you are waiting in line at a supermarket,
if you're at the bank or even at a shop like in this case.
This kind of conversation happens all the time.
So let's take a look at some words and phrases in today's language takeaway.
Alright so the first word that we have for you today is the gentleman, the older person,
noticed how wet the girl was.
She said you are soaked.
Alright so it's raining outside and he says oh dear miss, you are soaked.
Alright this is an adjective.
It describes what she looks like.
So if you are soaked, it means that you are a little bit wet?
Very wet.
You know you can say that someone is a little wet but if they're soaked, it means their
shoes, their pants, their shirt, their hat, everything is very wet.
Okay, you are soaked.
And so it's an adjective even though it has an ed ending, it may look like a verb or in
the past but it's not.
It's an adjective with an ed ending.
So it's raining outside, this woman is very wet, she's soaked, she's wet and she says
I have to rush, I have to hurry because of what?
Because I'm on my lunch break.
She's on her lunch break.
Okay so during work, we might have something called a break.
This is a short time when we don't have to work.
Five minutes, ten minutes.
And the break that we have at lunch when we get to eat is a little bit longer.
So we call this a lunch break.
So usually people have their lunch break let's say at noon or one o'clock and it's usually
an hour like you say.
That's right, an hour.
Okay so she's on her lunch break and that's why she's in a hurry and so the other guy
let her go in front of him and he asked her for some suggestions.
What is good here?
What do you recommend to eat?
So he's not familiar with the food but the woman is and she says well, the avocado sandwich
is delicious.
Now let's talk about this fruit because it is a fruit, right Marco?
It's a fruit, an avocado.
You see this, it looks like a big green pear more or less.
Well it's green on the inside and it's dark on the outside.
So to eat it, you have to take off the skin.
And inside it's kind of buttery almost.
It's not hard like a banana or an apple.
It's kind of more very, very soft.
You can take it out with a spoon.
It's very, very delicious and it's very common in a lot of Latin cooking where you have for
example guacamole in Mexican cooking which is made primarily of avocados.
So she recommends the avocado sandwich and then she goes on to describe some of the food
and now here, we're going to take a look at some adjectives but in a superlative form.
For example, she said it's the healthiest thing on the menu, this sandwich.
Okay, so this is a really important point Marco and I'm glad you brought it up.
I can say that this food is healthy.
That means it's good for my body.
But if I say that it's the healthiest, what does that mean?
How is that different from healthy?
Usually you're saying that it's on the list of things that are at the restaurant maybe
that are healthy.
This is the most healthy.
But you don't say most healthy.
You say healthiest.
Healthiest, okay.
So is chocolate cake the healthiest thing on the menu?
No, probably not.
It's probably the least healthy.
So on top we have the healthiest thing on the menu.
We also have another superlative.
We heard the word tastiest.
This comes from the adjective tasty.
Something is delicious.
It's tasty.
But here we're saying that it's the thing that tastes the best, the tastiest choice.
Okay, so I think that the avocado sandwich is the tastiest.
That means I think it's the best thing you can eat.
And that's another one actually.
Best is another superlative but it's a little bit different because it's not an is, is,
It's not like tastiest or healthiest.
It's just best.
You're saying that it's the number one.
So the best milkshake in town like in this dialogue.
Or you say the best soccer player in the world is so and so.
Alright, so this comes from the adjective good.
So we have good which is not bad and the best which is the most good, right?
But you don't say the most good.
You say the best.
He's the best.
So maybe Ronaldo is one of the best soccer players in the world.
So now let's take a break.
Let's take a look at everything again and we'll be right back with Fluency Builder.
Oh, dear miss, you are soaked.
Well, please, why don't you go ahead of me in line?
My pleasure, miss.
Don't mention it.
All right, we're back so now let's take a look at three phrases we picked out on Fluency
So, we have a great phrase here, something that we often hear in conversation, polite
conversations.
The older man says, I'm in no hurry.
Now, what does this mean?
Does this mean he needs to go somewhere?
No, he says, you know what?
I really don't have to go anywhere fast.
That's why he let her, the girl, get in front of him in line at the shop.
All right, so basically it means I can wait.
I can wait, yeah.
So, if somebody says, oh, I'll be right back.
You can say, I'm in no hurry.
Okay, so I'm in no hurry means it's not that important.
I don't have to go fast.
Right, but if you change the no and you say, I'm in a hurry, then that means that you have
to go fast.
Come on, Marco.
Speed it up.
I'm in a hurry.
So, just changing those two words, that gives you a completely different meaning.
And well, the girl, Michelle, she said, oh, that's so nice of you.
And he says, my pleasure.
All right, so this is an alternative to the phrase, you're welcome.
This is a very polite way to say you're welcome.
And so, when we hear her thank him for something, you know, thank you for letting me go ahead
of you, he says, my pleasure.
This is a great, great phrase for you guys.
So, now you have another alternative instead of saying, you're welcome or no problem or
don't mention it.
Now you have, it's my pleasure.
This is a little bit more formal, but you can use it in any circumstance.
And as I said, another option here is the phrase, don't mention it, which means exactly
So, the older gentleman says, thanks for the suggestions.
And what does the young woman say?
So, this is more colloquial.
This is a little bit more spoken language.
She's saying, no problem.
So, you have, you're welcome, no problem, my pleasure, don't mention it.
All ways of saying the same thing.
So, let's take another listen to our dialogue.
Wow, thanks for the suggestions.
So, talking about the superlatives, I know it's a complicated subject because grammar-wise,
it can be a little bit difficult to determine when do you say, for example, beautiful.
Do you say more beautiful or do you say beautiful-est?
You say more beautiful.
Well, I don't really have a hard and fast rule for everyone.
It's one of those things that you learn while you're studying English and you just have
to remember.
Yes, there are some exceptions, but usually you can guide yourself by adjectives that
have usually three or more syllables.
You probably have to use most or more.
Right, you don't say amazing-est.
Most amazing.
Most amazing or more amazing.
What about funny?
Often you say funnier or funniest.
Or sad.
You can say saddest.
All right, so sad, funny, these are one and two syllables, sad, funny, saddest, funniest,
you can use this ending.
But with the words like beautiful or amazing, there are three syllables, they're long, you
have to say most amazing, most beautiful.
Yeah, and there are some exceptions to the rule, you may find them, but usually if you
see an adjective that's a little bit long like this, you can just say, you can just
use more for the comparative or most for the superlative.
All right, so lots of stuff there.
I recommend that you guys go check out the dialogue and expansion sentences we have for
Basically we're looking at the phase回去 we talked about, the phase word here.
So the words回來, come back here and then we say back, come back here, come.
My name is Catherine and today we have a special dialogue for you all about this important
test that you need for going to graduate school.
Today we're going to talk about the famous or very scary GMAT.
Alright so the GMAT, G-M-A-T, is the test that students will take when they want to
go to graduate school for business management, so an MBA program.
It's pretty much a standard test that you have to take, as you say, to get into one
of these programs.
Today, we're going to talk a little bit about the sections of the test and more or less
how it's structured, but not too much in depth.
I can't seem to progress up the career ladder no matter how hard I try.
And I have been here for two years already.
Well, have you thought of getting an MBA?
I heard it does wonders in getting you to the top.
An MBA, hey?
Well, my degree wasn't in business.
The business schools won't be interested in me.
Nonsense.
The business schools measure your ability through a test called GMAT.
GMAT?
What does that stand for and what will the test contain?
Graduate Management Admission Test.
It contains three parts, analytical writing assessment, the quantitative section, and
the verbal section.
Not only does the test score you on the number of questions answered, but also on the difficulty.
Okay, this sounds a little tough.
How am I supposed to practice for this?
Up to you.
You could have a one-on-one session with a tutor or group sessions.
You can also use free or private computer software.
Going to church might help as well.
No matter what I do, I'm going to ace this test and go on to become a corporate fat cat.
That's the spirit.
So now let's talk about some of the language we found on Language Takeaway.
All right, so there's a lot of great stuff here.
The first one we've got is actually more about a job than school.
This is the career ladder.
That's right, Ash is complaining how he can't seem to make any progress in the career ladder.
So what is a career ladder?
We know what a ladder is.
A ladder is a tool that you use to climb from a low place to a high place.
So for example, if you want to go on the roof of your house, you have to use a ladder.
A career ladder is like an analogy.
When you start a career, you start at the bottom and you climb up, up, up to the top.
So going from the bottom to maybe the president of an organization.
So that's called the career ladder.
Yeah, climbing from the bottom of a career area, like for example, being the mailman
at an office building to being the president of that office.
Okay, so this is what Ash is complaining about, that it's hard or he can't really seem to
go up the career ladder.
And so Mindy suggests that he should take the GMAT and go into graduate school.
So as we said, the GMAT is a test that you take, but what does it stand for?
What is GMAT?
GMAT stands for Graduate Management Admission Test.
Okay, so that's the test that you take when you want to go to school.
So you have to send your scores to the admissions office of the school you want to go to and
they will decide if they're high enough or not.
So not everyone can go to graduate school and you have to take this test and pass it
basically.
So there's no pass fail, but certain schools will say that a score is high enough and other
schools will say that a higher score is more important.
So you can maybe go to a better school if you have a better score.
Okay, and well, Mindy went on to explain the three parts of this test.
The first one she said is analytical writing.
All right, so analytical writing is a very common part of a test.
For example, I think the SAT also has analytical writing and basically you're asked to read
something and then write about it.
And analytical means that you have to really use your mind to make an argument.
It's not just read and repeat, read and repeat.
So basically it comes from analyzing.
You analyze what you read and then you write about it.
You have to think and you have to understand what you read and then you have to write something
that makes sense.
It's logical.
Do you put your opinion in analytical writing?
So it's all based on facts.
Based on facts and logic and argument.
Uh-huh, okay.
So you have this part of analytical writing.
And then Mindy talks about the quantitative section of the test.
So the quantitative section, you think of the word quantify, quantity, quantitative
has to do with numbers.
Math, basically.
So you have to be able to understand basic math, some algebra, some arithmetic, some
statistics for example.
So quantitative sections on tests are the math sections.
Now from my understanding, even though it is a math section, it's not really like they
give you a problem, an equation and you have to solve it.
It's more like analysis, right?
They give you some information and you have to use math to solve it.
So there are a number of different parts.
One of them is like what you say.
It's kind of a, it's about logic while using algebra to solve these problems.
I think the other part of it has to do with statistics and being able to understand trends,
graphs, things like that.
So this is the math section of the exam.
So not only do you have to be able to read, understand and analyze what you're reading,
you have to be able to be good at math.
And then finally we have a verbal section.
What is this all about?
This is about your English language and grammar skills.
So the verbal section will test your vocabulary knowledge.
Do you understand what big words mean?
Also will test your ability to read passages and analyze them.
So I guess this part is the most important, one of the most important parts for foreign
students who obviously don't speak English as their first language.
This makes sure that you have a good enough English level to be able to take a graduate
program in English, right?
Part of it's that there's a special test that will test your English abilities, but this
is absolutely an important part for a non-native English speaker on the GMAT.
You have to, it's hard for English speakers who were born speaking English, you know,
natives English speakers.
So it's something that really you should devote your time to if you are a non-native English
speaker because there will be some very challenging words there.
So those are the three sections of the GMAT.
And so to finish off language takeaway, Ash said that he's going to take this test because
he wants to become a corporate fat cat.
Now this is an interesting term.
This is not something we talk about in the office.
This is something we talk about with friends.
So corporate fat cat, you think corporate, corporation, this has to do with business.
So basically we're talking about very important businessmen, but fat cat's not a good thing,
No, it's not really.
You refer to a fat cat, a corporate fat cat, as a businessman who you consider to have
a lot of money, but obviously you make the analogy that they're fat because they have
so much money.
And it's kind of a way of saying that businessmen are not the, corporate fat cats are not the
best people around.
No, you're basically saying that these guys, these men on top, they're rich, but they're
kind of lazy.
And so he wants to be a corporate fat cat.
He wants to be very rich and powerful and not have to work so hard.
Which obviously is not really the case always, but this is a common term that, as you said,
you wouldn't really mention it in the office, but it's more of a satirical way of describing
speaking about businessmen.
All right, so now let's finish off language takeaway and move on to some phrases on Fluency
All right, in Fluency Builder today we have a number of really great phrases you can use.
The first one is from Mindy.
She says, I heard it does wonders in getting you to the top.
She suggests getting an MBA.
I heard it does wonders to improve your career.
This is actually something that you might hear in a commercial.
It does wonders means it really helps.
It's really beneficial to you.
You might hear it in a commercial, for example, with a face cream.
It does wonders to your skin.
It really makes your skin look good.
By using this phrase, it does wonders, you're basically saying it's fast, it's effective,
it's almost a miracle of how much it can improve your career or in this case of the cream,
how it can improve your face.
The MBA does wonders.
It's almost miraculous how positive and effective it will have on your career.
It does wonders.
Then Ash was asking how he's supposed to study for this and Mindy answered, well, you know
It's up to you.
You have a lot of options.
She said, up to you.
This means it's your decision.
We can use this in normal life.
You and I are out, Marco, and I say, well, I don't know what to eat.
What do you want to eat?
I can say, oh, whatever.
Up to me.
That means I get to decide what we eat and I want pizza.
Up to you is a way to say, no, you decide.
It's your decision.
For our next phrase, Ash was saying that he's going to study really hard and he's going
to ace the test.
Now, to ace a test, this is a phrase that we use.
We can use it in high school and college as well, not just MBA programs.
To ace a test means to do perfectly on it.
That means to get an A or even 100%.
It's important to remember that we have this grading system, A, B, C, D, F. A is the top.
You ace it means you don't make any mistakes.
Remember that, A for ace.
You can even use it if it's not really a test.
Like a job interview, you say, I aced that job interview.
I ace it.
In sports, oftentimes, we see this tennis.
It's a sports analogy.
Tennis, when someone serves a ball and the other player can't even hit the ball back,
it's an ace.
You get a point.
It's an ace for that.
Even good sports athletes, you call them aces.
After a job interview, I can say, wow, Marco, I really aced that interview.
I aced it.
Mindy says, well, you know what?
That's really good.
Now, this is something you say to someone when you like their attitude.
If I say, oh man, I did really bad.
I don't want to study.
You say, well, that's a bad attitude.
If I say, you know what?
I'm going to do awesome.
I'm going to kill this.
I'm going to ace it.
You can say, that's the spirit.
That means good attitude.
That's the right way to think about this.
So you're kind of even encouraging that person.
You're saying, you know what?
I really like your attitude.
That's the good way of thinking.
So if you want to push someone and say, good for you.
This is a good way to approach it.
You say, that's the spirit.
So this is all the language that we have for Fluency Builder.
Why don't we take a break and we'll be right back.
And what will the test contain?
It contains three parts.
Analytical Writing Assessment, the Quantitative Section, and the Verbal Section.
So now talking about the GMAT and an MBA.
This seems to be a very popular topic nowadays.
Everyone wants to get obviously a good education and go to graduate school, which means getting
your master's degree or your doctoral degree.
What do you think about the GMAT and the MBA?
Is it a miracle worker like this girl says she does?
Wow, it does wonders for your career.
Do you think that's really the case?
Maybe if you asked me five years ago, I would say yes.
But I really believe that it depends on the person.
Nothing is a miracle cure.
I do think that if you really have a good attitude and you work hard, you'll get a lot
But if you think it's going to get you a job, you're wrong because you have to get yourself
a job.
So I think it depends on the person.
Now obviously also it depends on the country, right?
Now how popular or how important is it for people to have, let's say, an MBA to get ahead
in business in the United States?
I'd say it's pretty important.
You don't have to have an MBA.
I mean, you can start your own business.
And if you're successful, you'll probably start more businesses.
But getting an MBA is also a very good opportunity to network, to meet people, to find out more
about the industry that you want to start out in.
And so I think in that sense, it's pretty important because it's a way to start making
contacts.
Yeah, you definitely meet a lot of people with work experience from different backgrounds,
international students.
So it's obviously a great thing.
But obviously to be able to do one of these programs, like get an MBA, you have to take
these tests, which I understand are very, very difficult.
They are very difficult and it can be very expensive.
I mean, graduate school itself is $100,000, $200,000.
And then to prepare for the tests, you could spend another $1,000 just getting classes
or tutoring.
So I do think that it can be a lot of money up front.
But there are places that you can go to study and you could even study on your own using
your computer.
I think this is a very interesting topic because in many different cultures, in many different
places, education or, for example, higher learning, like getting an MBA, has different
levels of importance.
Like in Europe, a lot of Europeans maybe don't really even pay too much attention to getting
an MBA.
Whereas in other countries, they might really emphasize like you have to have an MBA.
It's really good for your career.
So it's very interesting to see how in different places they handle it.
It is interesting.
And I'm actually very curious to hear from our users.
Have you ever thought about getting an MBA?
Are MBAs important to do business in your country?
My name is Kathryn and we've been traveling around the world eating different foods from
different countries and today we're in Thailand.
Thai food is one of the most popular types of food around the world especially because
of that specific Asian taste it has.
And so we're going to jump right into this dialogue today and see what we have prepared
What did you cook?
Well, as you know, I was in Thailand last month and I took a cooking class.
So I prepared some of my favorite dishes.
As long as I don't get food poisoning.
So what is on the menu tonight?
Okay, for starters we have Tom Yum soup.
It's a bit spicy but really good.
The ginger and lemongrass really give it a nice taste.
Now this next dish is one of the most famous.
Foreigners call it papaya salad but the proper name is Tom Sam.
It is a spicy salad made from a mix of fresh vegetables including shredded unripened papaya
and tomato.
The combination of sour and spicy is really interesting.
I could have this every day.
Okay, now for the last and best dish in my opinion.
This is called Pad Thai.
Stir fried noodles with eggs, fish sauce, tamarind juice, red chili pepper plus bean
sprouts, shrimp and tofu garnished with crushed peanuts and coriander.
It's practically Thailand's national dish.
Wow, this is great.
I never knew Thai food was so creative and delicious.
Want some more?
All right, so we've got a number of different dishes we'd like to talk about as well as
So let's look at some of those dishes and important key words in language takeaway.
All right, so the first word we have on language takeaway today is food poisoning.
So we don't want to get food poisoning when having this, any meal.
Any meal, no, that's right.
Food poisoning is a bad thing.
Now this is something that happens when you eat bad food or dirty food.
So you get very, very sick and you feel like you have to vomit, you have to throw up.
So your stomach hurts, you feel like you have to throw up, you may be going to the bathroom
very often.
That means usually you have food poisoning.
All right, and so people often associate food poisoning with food that you eat on the street,
maybe dirtier food.
But this is something you should be very careful of when you're traveling, not to Thailand
alone, but maybe to any other country.
You can get it in America, you can get it in Mexico.
So just something to be careful of.
So apart from that, we're going to jump into our first dish for today.
We're having a soup called Tom Yum Soup.
Tom Yum Soup.
Now this is one of my favorite soups.
It's quite spicy, isn't it, Marco?
Very spicy, but very, very good as well.
It has a kind of citric taste, like a lemon.
It does, and it's very yellow or orange colored.
And it's a very, very common dish on Thai restaurant menus.
And there are some key ingredients in this soup that I think are important to discuss.
They're often found in Thai food and other kinds of Asian food.
The first one is ginger.
Ginger, that's right.
This is a root.
It kind of looks like a potato almost.
It's usually white and it has little arms, you know.
It's not a round object.
It's got pointy little arms.
And the characteristic taste of ginger is kind of strong and bitter.
It is quite strong.
You'll find it in Japanese food.
Sometimes you get pickled ginger to eat.
It's like a pink food you get with sushi.
Other times in Chinese cooking, it's something that's chopped up with garlic and cooked in
So ginger is a very important one.
So in this soup, we have ginger and we also have lemongrass.
So this is very interesting because it's not very easily found around the world.
This is very common in Southeast Asian cooking.
And you might have a hard time finding it in places like America where it's not really
a part of the cuisine.
But lemongrass is very distinct.
It has a very strong flavor and it's actually quite long.
It's green and long.
It looks a bit like celery, but it's harder.
And the taste that it gives it is a little bit citric, kind of like a lemon almost.
But you're going to find this in soups like tom yum or other things.
So lemongrass is another one.
And then moving on to our next dish, which is one of the most, I think, the most popular
dishes of all Thailand is the famous pad thai.
Pad thai.
Now, this is absolutely my favorite Thai dish.
And I know that's very cliche.
It's something that everyone says, but it's true.
You know, this is a great dish you can buy on the street.
You can buy it in a restaurant.
It's basically a noodle dish, right?
It's stir fried noodles with eggs and peanuts are the most, like the key ingredients in
But you might also get a little bit of hot red pepper, some sugar, some lime.
And the noodles are flat.
They're not round.
And actually one of the key ingredients also that gives it this very distinct taste is
tamarind juice.
Tamarind juice.
This is again another one of those flavors from Southeast Asia that you might not find
in many other places, certainly not in America.
Now tamarind, they're funny looking things.
They look like peas, but they're dark brown.
So tamarind juice gives it this kind of sweet flavor.
So this is the interesting thing about pad thai is that you have these sweet flavors
from the tamarind juice, from even the fish sauce combined with chili.
So it's kind of like a spicy, very sweet taste.
And then you have citrus.
You have some lime maybe and some sugar.
So it's a lot of different tastes and flavors, but it's a really magical combination.
Why don't we take another listen to our dialogue?
For starters, we have Tom Yum soup.
It's a bit spicy, but really good.
Foreigners call it papaya salad, but the proper name is Tom Sam.
It is a spicy salad made from a mix of fresh vegetables, including shredded unripened papaya
Now for the last and best dish, in my opinion.
Stir fried noodles with eggs, fish sauce, tamarind juice, red chili pepper, plus bean
sprouts, shrimp, and tofu.
Garnished with crushed peanuts and coriander.
So first up we have the phrase on the menu.
What's on the menu tonight?
That person asked, so what's on the menu?
And by saying this, we're saying, well, what are we having for dinner?
What are we going to eat?
So you might want to think, okay, menu, I'm going to look at the menu, but you could even
say this at home where there is no menu.
This is a spoken language way of saying, what are we eating tonight?
What's for dinner?
What are we eating?
What's on the menu?
Even though, as you said, there's no menu.
And after that, we have another phrase that's really important.
We say, for starters, we're going to have this or that.
So for starters.
We said for starters, we are having a soup, a Tom Yum soup.
So a starter dish is something that you have to begin the meal, a small dish maybe.
Start, starter.
So a starter is a noun, it's a thing, and it's something you eat at the beginning.
Usually it's not very heavy.
A steak would never be a starter, right?
So here we have Tom Yum soup, which is our starter.
And after that, we have the national dish.
Now this is a great phrase.
We had the Pad Thai, which is considered to be the national dish.
And so usually every country has their national dish, something that's unique or that a country
is famous for.
Like, for example, China would be famous for?
Kung Pao chicken.
Kung Pao chicken, yeah.
In America, you might even say that apple pie is the most important national dish.
But do you guys have one in Ecuador?
What's your national dish?
I would say, I have no idea which would be.
It's not very well known.
Maybe ceviche is kind of shared between Peru and Ecuador.
Like maybe in Argentina, you would say steak is a national dish.
Yeah, absolutely.
Or in Mexico, you know, like tacos or enchiladas, stuff like that.
Or in Italy, spaghetti bolognese.
So we have a number of different countries and each country maybe has one or two national
dishes.
These are very special dishes that are important for that country.
So we have our national dishes.
And after we finish dinner, we ate so much that we say, I'm stuffed.
Now this is a common phrase that you will hear at the end of a meal when you've eaten
and eaten and eaten.
And it just means I'm full.
I can't eat anymore.
Yeah, I'm stuffed.
So stuffed means that I'm full of things.
Now it's a very informal way of saying I'm full, right?
Because if somebody says, would you like some more soup?
You say, no, thank you.
But if you're with friends, you can say, oh, I just had so much pizza.
So it's a little bit more informal, but a lot more native-like.
So let's take a listen to our dialogue one last time.
OK, for starters, we have Tom Yum soup.
Now, this next dish is one of the most famous.
It is a spicy salad made from a mix of fresh vegetables, including shredded unripened
papaya and tomato.
OK, now for the last and best dish, in my opinion.
It's stir fried noodles with eggs, fish sauce, tamarind juice, red chili pepper, plus bean
sprouts, shrimp and tofu, garnished with crushed peanuts and coriander.
All right, so speaking of Thai food, it's very famous around the world, but it's very
spicy.
It can be very spicy, and what always surprises me about Thai food is that the salads might
be the spiciest things on the menu.
People like to eat many different salads.
You have a Chiang Mai chicken salad or you have a papaya salad, but these are really,
really spicy.
We have a line in our dialogue that we're eating papaya salad, and it's very interesting
because it has this fruit, papaya, and it has some other vegetables as well, but the
salad is very, very spicy itself.
That's right, and you would never think of a fruit salad as being something that's spicy
You'd think of it as being pretty tame, pretty boring.
But that's what gives it a certain attraction to it, right?
Absolutely, and I don't know if you're a big fan of Thai food.
I certainly am, and I really like that about Thai food, that you can have these really
spicy dishes, but there's just so much flavor.
There's so many things happening, lemongrass, sugar, lime, fish sauce.
Yeah, it's very, very good.
And speaking of national dishes, this is actually a very interesting question because as we
mentioned, a couple of countries have national dishes like Italy and different places, but
what about in your country?
Do you have a national dish or what would you consider to be your national dish?
So we'd love to hear from you guys.
Tell us all about it, what it tastes like, and even if there's some history, tell us
about that too.
Bye, everybody, muah.
My name is Catherine and you've probably heard us talking a little bit about small talk the
past few weeks.
We have another episode about small talk and we're going to teach you some things that
you can say to people when you haven't seen them or maybe even met them before.
Today we're going to talk to a stranger.
So we're going to talk very briefly about some casual topic.
And so let's jump into the dialogue and see what happens.
Excuse me, is this seat taken?
No, please feel free.
Do you work in Shanghai?
No, I'm a tourist.
This place is amazing.
It's much bigger than I imagined and much more exciting.
There's so much to see here.
You can say that again.
It's much more modern than people imagine.
Where are you from?
I'm from Kansas originally, a much quieter and more peaceful place than here.
That's for sure.
But I'm living in Paris right now.
Oh, Paris.
Wonderful.
I'd love to visit sometime.
So now we're going to take a look at a lot of phrases on this occasion.
So let's go for fluency builder part one.
So the first phrase we have is a very common phrase if you're in a train or on a bus.
You hear the phrase, is this seat taken?
So Michelle came up to the stranger and said, excuse me, is this seat taken?
That means, is anybody sitting here?
It basically means, can I sit here?
This is a very polite way of asking if you can sit down in the seat.
You can also say it in a restaurant, at a movie theater, in a classroom.
This was a really, really common phrase.
So it's a very polite way of saying, can I sit down?
You're asking for permission basically.
Is the seat taken?
Because what if a person says, well, no, it's not.
Do you have to say, may I sit down?
May I take a seat?
Well, if they say, I'm sorry, someone is sitting here.
That means that maybe they're waiting for a friend and then no, you can't sit there.
But if they say, sure, like in the dialogue, feel free, then you're really basically able
to sit down.
So the stranger answers by saying, no, please feel free.
So he says, no, the seat is not taken.
Please feel free.
Feel free is a very unusual phrase in English, but one that you're going to hear a lot.
It basically means do what you want to do.
So if I want to sit down, I say, is this seat taken?
If you say, feel free, Marco, that means feel free to sit down.
So we can complete the sentence by saying, no, please feel free to sit down.
But it's kind of stating the obvious.
You're saying basically feel free to do what you want.
But you could use it in other ways.
For example, Hey Marco, are you using this pen right here?
No, no, feel free.
That means feel free to use my pen.
And so then they started talking about what they do, where they work.
And Michelle said, yes, I work in Shanghai.
Oh, how about you?
Now this is a really important construction.
This is a really important phrase in English.
And I think a lot of people make mistakes with this.
So how about you means, do you work in Shanghai?
I just said I work in Shanghai, but how about you?
Do you?
So that's saying, and you, do you work here?
Or and you, what do you do?
Now, the common mistake with how about you or using the construction how about is that
for some reason, some people seem to think that it means how is it?
So for example, if someone says, how about your weekend?
No, we don't say that.
But in this case, how about you always follows a statement.
So yes, I do live in Shanghai.
That means, do you live in Shanghai?
If I say, I would like to eat a hamburger and French fries.
What would you like to eat?
So remember, that's the way that you use how about.
Never say how about your weekend or how about your vacation when you want to ask, how was
Don't say that.
No, basically, this is a way to reply to someone when they're telling you about their experience.
You want to talk about yours.
Okay, so let's take a break.
Let's review everything and we'll be back with Fluency Builder part two.
That's wonderful.
So now let's continue with some more phrases on Fluency Builder.
Okay, this first phrase is one that I really like to use.
The phrase is from Michelle.
She says, you can say that again.
But she's talking about how Shanghai is so big and so exciting.
And Michelle says, you can say that again.
Now, what does this mean, Marco?
So she is basically agreeing with the person.
The stranger says, Shanghai is amazing.
There's so much to see.
Michelle says, you can say that again.
It's saying, I agree with you.
You are so right.
I really agree.
All right, so this is very emphatic.
That means that it's really, it's more than just I agree.
I really, really agree.
The person really feels something about this, feels passionately about it.
So if you go to the movies and you say, oh, that movie was terrible, you can say.
It means, oh, I agree.
It was really bad.
Now, when Michelle asked the stranger where he was from, he says, I'm from Kansas originally.
Okay, what's originally?
I'm original?
I'm from Kansas originally means maybe I don't live in Kansas now, but that's where I come
Origin, originally.
That means, you know, at the beginning.
And remember, Kansas, by the way, is one of the states in the United States.
And so he's saying he's from Kansas, but now he lives in Paris.
So that's why you say, I'm originally from Kansas, but I live in Paris.
All right, so Marco, you live here in Shanghai, but where do you come from originally?
Originally, I'm from Ecuador.
And I'm originally from Chicago, but I currently live in China.
And as he was talking about Kansas, he also said that, well, it's obviously a lot quieter
and more peaceful.
And then he ends his statement by saying, that's for sure.
And this is a phrase that we use to add emphasis on something.
It's almost like saying, this is a really quiet, much quieter and peaceful place.
It really is.
It's not like you're adding anything to the statement, like no meaning, but you're actually
kind of making it more strong.
You're saying it's a fact.
It's a fact.
It's really this way.
So obviously, Kansas compared to Shanghai is a lot more quieter.
Or I could say that in Chicago in the winter, it's a lot colder than Shanghai.
So again, you're emphasizing on your statement, telling everyone that it's very, very much
That's how it really is.
Why don't we listen to our dialogue one last time.
Is this seat taken?
So small talk with a stranger.
This is actually a very common scenario.
If in a bus, in a train, you sit next to a stranger, this is more or less what you're
going to talk about.
And you don't even have to talk about this with a total stranger.
You could actually use this with someone that you're working with or just an acquaintance.
So basically, these are key questions that you would ask someone that you don't really
know very well.
And as you can see, you're not really going into any deep personal questions.
It's very light conversation, very brief as well.
And I would like to add that in American culture, people often think it's very rude to ask someone
how much do you earn, how much is your apartment, how much is your car.
So in small talk in American culture, and I think a lot of Western cultures, we don't
talk about money or religion.
So what religion are you?
So I think it's important to talk about things that are very simple.
How's the weather?
These things.
This is exactly, I think, one of the main points that when you're learning a language
such as English, not only to understand the language, but also the culture.
It's very, very different, especially, for example, in Asian cultures where it's no big
deal if you go to the hairdresser and the hairdresser asks you how much you earn.
But in the United States or many Western countries, it's not something that you talk about your
salary or that you really ask.
It's kind of personal information.
And if you talk about it, you might make people very uncomfortable.
And so I recommend talking about some of the things that we've discussed here and some
of the things that we've discussed in other lessons in this series about small talk.
And if you have any questions or any comments about this lesson, you can come and visit
us at EnglishPod.com.
And my name is Kathryn and today we have a great lesson for you about traveling.
You know, we have taken a look at previous lessons where you can buy a ticket, how to
book a flight, what to do at the airport, but now we are going to see what we can do
if our flight gets canceled.
Okay, this is not a fun situation, but hopefully with our help you'll be able to understand
what these messages are about flights that are canceled or delayed.
May I please see your passport and reservation?
Oh, I'm sorry, sir.
This flight has been canceled due to some mechanical problems.
Canceled?
What am I supposed to do now?
We apologize for any inconveniences that may be caused by this.
If your flight is urgent, I could put you on a waiting list for another flight this
evening, but it's on a first come, first serve basis.
So there's no guarantee you'll be able to take that flight.
What are my other options?
Well, if you can wait until tomorrow, we will put you up in a hotel for today and you can
take the scheduled flight for tomorrow morning.
I'll do that then.
Thank you for your understanding, sir.
I'll book your flight now.
So now it's time for us to go into Language Takeaway.
All right, in Language Takeaway today, we have about four words or phrases.
The first one is the reason for this cancellation.
The reason is mechanical problems.
She said that the airplane has some mechanical problems and that's why the flight is canceled.
So the key here is mechanical.
Mechanical meaning like related to machines, right?
All right, so something that's a mechanical problem has to do with the actual structure
of the plane.
So for example, maybe something is wrong with the wings or maybe something is wrong with
the engines, some type of problem that has to do with the mechanics of the machine.
And obviously, if you have a problem with the wings or the wheels or the engine, you
don't want to fly that plane.
So this caused the canceled flight.
Now after that, we heard this word, we apologize for any inconveniences.
What's an inconvenience, Marco?
Well, obviously, I planned to take this flight, let's say Tuesday at 8 a.m. and if the flight
is canceled, that means I have to wait an hour or three hours or maybe for the next
So it's an inconvenience.
It means it's not convenient for me.
It causes me some trouble.
All right, so something that is inconvenient causes problems or causes trouble.
So for example, you have this late flight or canceled flight, that's an inconvenience.
But also, small things can be inconvenient as well.
Like I want to go home at 5.
Unfortunately, I have to write this report.
It's very inconvenient.
So maybe you have a doctor's appointment tomorrow at 12, but you also have a meeting at your
work so it's inconvenient, these two dates.
All right, they cause problems for each other.
So after that, the service person says if your flight is urgent, I can put you on a
waiting list.
Waiting list.
So this is another important phrase to understand when we're talking about canceled flights.
We usually get put on a waiting list and it's basically a list with everyone's names where
you are waiting for the next available flight or you're waiting to be able to have the service
All right, so you can have a waiting list at an airport like here, but you can also
have a waiting list at a restaurant, right?
Restaurants are super popular and you got to get on a waiting list.
So can I put my name on the waiting list?
That means can you call me when there's a free table?
So even though we are on this waiting list, it doesn't mean that we are guaranteed to
be able to take this flight this evening.
So there is no guarantee.
All right, this guarantee, this is an important thing to talk about because a guarantee is
something that means that we will definitely get a later flight.
Yeah, we promise.
We promise.
So you often see the word guarantee in advertisements.
For example, this TV has a six month guarantee.
So we guarantee it won't break.
If it does, we will fix it.
But no guarantee means that we can't promise.
We don't promise.
So it's possible that you won't get a flight.
So for example, if you buy a new car, the manufacturer will guarantee that it's in good
condition and it won't break down.
But if you buy a used car, it's unlikely that they will give you that same guarantee.
No, that's right.
They cannot promise it because they don't know.
All right, so a lot of words and phrases there.
Why don't we go back and listen to our dialogue again.
evening.
But it's on a first come first serve basis.
Well, if you can wait until tomorrow, we will put you up in a hotel for today.
And you can take the scheduled flight for tomorrow morning.
All right, so now let's take a look at three key phrases that we have prepared for you
Okay, so the first phrase we have here is a very important one.
This tells us about the cause of the problem.
The service person said, I'm sorry, sir.
So this phrase due to basically is saying because of, right?
So this flight has been canceled because of mechanical problems.
And remember this due is D-U-E.
D-U-E.
So I think it's kind of a nicer or more formal way of saying because of or the reason is.
So for example, the picnic has been canceled due to bad weather.
So it sounds a lot more professional, a lot more formal than if you say because of bad
weather.
So just remember here due to indicates the cause or the reason.
It's like saying because.
Now, when we were talking about the flights, we said that we are on the waiting list, but
in order to catch this flight, they are going to take people on a first come first served
basis.
First come first served.
Now, this is again a very common phrase.
It's related to that waiting list thing we were talking about.
If you have a waiting list, usually the waiting list is first come first serve.
So I could say, am I guaranteed a spot?
And you could say, well.
It's first come first serve.
If I'm number one on the list, I will probably get a seat.
But if I'm number 30, probably not.
So what we mean by it is that we don't give priority to anyone.
We don't say, oh, you are more important or you're not.
Whoever comes first gets it.
So if I come to the restaurant at five o'clock, I get to sit first.
But if you come at 510, you're next.
And after you, 530.
So it's first come first serve.
It depends on when you arrive.
So obviously this wasn't convenient for us.
So we are going to wait until tomorrow.
But the airline will put us up in a hotel.
We will put you up in a hotel.
So let's take this as a phrase because we all know what a hotel is.
It's a place where you stay when you're on holiday or business.
But to put someone up, what exactly does this mean?
Basically you are paying for that person to stay at that hotel.
And you made the reservation and you're going to pay for the room.
So I will put you up means I will pay for your room at a hotel.
And it's usually only for accommodation for a hotel.
You can't say I will put you up for a meal.
But you can say I'll put you up at my house, which means I will let you stay the night
at my house.
So not food, but actually sleeping.
So it usually involves sleeping.
So for example, you could say he's coming to our hometown for the wedding.
I will put him up at my house.
Or if your company sent you to Japan, you say my company put me up at the Hyatt Hotel.
Oh, fancy.
But it's on a first come, first serve basis.
So talking about canceled flights, usually it's due to bad weather.
And usually you can catch another flight soon.
But sometimes you do have these problems.
Like when there was the whole 9-11 thing, I think a lot of flights were canceled or
the volcano that erupted and European flights were grounded for a long time.
So sometimes there are natural disasters.
Sometimes there are man-made disasters.
But you actually said a very interesting word there and something that I think people who
are learning about this should definitely study.
The word is grounded.
A flight has been grounded.
That means that the airplane will stay on the ground.
It means the plane will not fly.
So when planes are grounded because of bad weather or because of a natural disaster like
a volcano, it's a very serious situation because the people who are going to fly can't now.
Now in our dialogue, we saw that they handled it, the airline handled it very, very well.
But I think this is a very rare case.
You've had flights canceled before.
How did they handle it?
I've had two or three flights canceled one time because of a blizzard.
So all flights were grounded.
The weather was very bad, very dangerous.
And the airline company said, well, we're sorry.
There are no more flights.
But if you come back tomorrow, we can help you.
And I was very lucky because they did not give me a hotel.
They did not put me up in a hotel.
But I was staying with a friend.
So my friends put me up at her house.
But the other time the flight was canceled, the airline put me on a flight from another
company, another airline company.
And so sometimes they can do that where they have a relationship with another airline company,
they can do that.
So usually they do try to handle it relatively well.
But I've heard sometimes that they are not very understanding or very sympathetic to
the inconvenience they cause.
And I think the worst is when it's bad weather because everyone's angry.
And all the customers need to go somewhere, but they can't because there are no flights.
And so the people who are working for the airlines get very frustrated or upset.
Because basically it's not their fault.
It's not their fault.
There's bad weather.
So there's not really much compensation the company can give you.
No, definitely not.
Not really their fault.
But it's hard not to get frustrated because you want to go home, you're tired, you don't
want to pay for another night in a hotel.
So I can understand both sides.
Well, it's an interesting topic and I'm sure many of our listeners who have traveled have
had a flight delayed or canceled.
So you can come to our website and share your story with us.
And of course, if you have any questions or comments.
We hope to see you all there.
My name is Catherine and today we're celebrating a very important and very special American holiday.
That's right. Today we are celebrating and talking about Thanksgiving, a very, as you say, traditional and big holiday in the United States.
That's right. So this year it's on November 25th. It's always on a Thursday.
Let's check out our dialogue to hear about what happens at this special dinner and why this is a holiday and then we'll be back to talk about it in just a moment.
So, what are you doing for Thanksgiving?
Not much really. It's more of an American tradition. So back home we don't really celebrate it.
In fact, I'm not even sure of what exactly is being celebrated.
You know, it's a time to get together with all your family and be thankful for everything.
Yeah, but how did this holiday come to be?
Well, the first settlers of Massachusetts arrived there because of religious persecution from England and King James.
Once in the New World, they befriended a native named Squanto who taught them how to harvest food from the area such as corn.
Well, they had enough harvest for the next winter and in celebration they decided to have a big feast with the natives,
giving thanks to the land and everyone for their food, health and new lives.
Interesting. I am amazed how big and delicious Thanksgiving dinners are.
Come to my house for Thanksgiving. We're having turkey, pumpkin pie, mashed potatoes with gravy and lots of stuffing.
Count me in!
All right, we're back. So a very interesting holiday.
We learned a little bit about why it's celebrated, how it came to be.
So let's take a look at some of those words now on Language Takeaway.
The first word we have for you guys today on Language Takeaway is settler.
Now, a settler is a person. What kind of a person is a settler?
Basically, it's a person that goes to a place to settle down there or to settle there and that basically means to live there, to stay there permanently.
All right, but the idea with a settler is that he or she will start to build something, build a house, build a city, build a town.
So settlers go to places where there aren't very many people.
That's right. Kind of hard to be a settler now.
But yeah, back then, obviously, there were so many places that were undiscovered or didn't have people and they would settle there.
And the place where they went in the United States is called Massachusetts.
Massachusetts. Now, this is a very long, very hard to pronounce word and I believe it comes from a local Indian language.
But Massachusetts, if you break it down, Massachusetts is a state.
And you might have heard of the biggest city in Massachusetts, which is Boston.
So Boston, Massachusetts. But this is where the settlers first came when they came to America.
That's right. So I think if you go to Boston, it has kind of this atmosphere of the settlers and how this old little touch to it of how it used to be.
Right. There is an old feel to Boston because unlike most places in America, Boston has been a city for over 400 years, almost 500 years.
So it's much different from places like California or Texas.
That's right. OK. So the settlers arrived to Massachusetts and they went there because of religious persecution from England and King James.
OK. So the key here is persecution. This is something that you do to someone else or this is something a government does to someone else.
Basically, to persecute someone is to is to limit them or to attack them or to to prevent them from doing things that they want to do.
That's right. So basically, that is the reason why they left England, because the king was persecuting them.
They didn't let them be have their own religion. Right.
They had this religion and the king did not approve of the religion and they felt like people were critical of them or attacking them or preventing them from practicing this religion.
And so their religious persecution in England pushed them to this place, the New World.
So that's our next word. Right. That's right. The New World. And this is what they used to call the continent of United States or North America.
They used to call it the New World. All right. So New World, Old World.
So if we think of Europe as being the old world, America, like you're saying, Latin America, North America, these are part of the New World.
So it's almost like they had never been discovered before. Right. So, yeah, basically everyone was concentrated in Europe at that time.
And then when they went to the West, they went to the New World. And obviously, when they arrived, it wasn't empty.
They had people there. And we say that they are the natives of that land.
OK, so a native of some place is someone who comes from there originally. All right.
So if I came to America in 1500, there were Native American Indians who were living there.
And so they're the natives of this place. Now, can you use that nowadays? Can you say I am a native of Italy?
I'm a native of Italy. I'm a native of Chicago. Yes, you can.
It's a little bit, you know, it's a little bit less common than saying I'm from Chicago or I'm from Italy, but it's also correct.
OK, but in this case, we're talking about the natives as the people who were already there.
Yes, Native American Indians. Like Squanto. Like Squanto. That's the name of that Native American Indian who was there.
And this native named Squanto taught them how to harvest food from the area such as corn.
So this is the interesting part of the story. It is. Basically, these two groups worked together.
You have Native American Indians and settlers, and they worked together to make a meal and to survive, basically.
And to harvest food, to harvest, the key here is that it's a verb. It's something you do to crops or like corn or potatoes.
And you take them out from the field and you bring them home.
Right. So in this case, the corn is growing out of the land. And if you go out and cut it down and take it, you are harvesting corn.
You are you're picking it, collecting it.
Exactly. And so they harvested the food and they have a very big meal.
So we do want to talk about the special meal here that features all of this harvested food.
Let's take a look at some of those words in Language Takeaway Part 2.
All right. So talking about the foods. Now, obviously, the tradition is that you have this big meal together.
And the one thing that is, I think, a given is that you have a big turkey.
That's right. So a turkey is a bird. They make very funny sounds, don't they?
Right. Like gobble, gobble, gobble.
But they they're very big. They run around and they have this red part under their neck and beaks and everything.
So it's a very commonly eaten food for Thanksgiving. But people can eat it anytime.
Yeah. This is a weird thing. I usually don't see turkey too much, if not during Thanksgiving.
Like I don't see somebody like a restaurant offering turkey.
No, you don't. But you do see it in delis like a roast turkey sandwich.
Yes, this is true.
Because turkey is very healthy.
OK. So we have turkey. We also have pumpkin pie. So pumpkin pie.
Pumpkin pie. This is a classic. You've heard of apple pie.
But pumpkin pie is a baked dessert that is filled with some pumpkin filling.
So as you know, pumpkin or may know pumpkin is a big...
It's a gourd.
Yeah. I think it's kind of vegetable.
Kind of like a vegetable. It's big and orange. And basically this is a... It's kind of sweet, right? The insides.
It is. It's a little bit sweet. It's big, orange and round, like you say.
People often start to harvest them around October. I'd say.
Some people like to eat the seeds. But you can also scoop out with your spoon.
You can take out some of the meat, some of the filling.
And that's what we use to create this pumpkin pie.
Very good. So pumpkin pie. Delicious food.
Now we also have a typical mashed potatoes with gravy.
All right. I love mashed potatoes. Mashed means to squish or to break down or to push down.
And so mashed potatoes, you have a normal potato and you mix up all the potatoes together.
So it's kind of like soft and creamy.
Yeah. It almost becomes like a paste or almost like, let's say, like ice cream, but not cold.
Not cold and not sweet. But yeah, that's the consistency. That's what it feels like.
And so when we eat potatoes like this, in America, we often like to eat it with a sauce.
And the sauce that we eat with mashed potatoes is called gravy.
Gravy. And now gravy is usually made out of what?
Gravy is made from... Well, you can make different kinds of gravy.
But the way that we make it at my house is we take all of the juice from the turkey.
Because when you bake a turkey in the oven, on the bottom of the pan you'll get some liquid, some water, some fat.
And you use that to make a gravy. So it's brown and it's very salty and delicious.
Awesome. Sounds delicious. And to end things, we have stuffing.
Now this stuffing goes inside the turkey, right? But then you take it out.
That's right. So stuffing, we talk about stuffing in general as being something that you put inside something else.
So if I have a stuffed animal, he has some cotton inside or whatever.
But if you have a turkey, you take out all of the organs, the heart, the liver.
You take those parts out because we don't eat those.
And you put some bread, onions and vegetables inside the turkey to cook.
And then you take it out and you eat it. So it tastes a bit like turkey and meat, but it's very delicious.
But you eat it apart, kind of like let's say rice.
Like a side dish.
All right. It sounds delicious. And obviously it's a very big meal, but very, very common, a traditional holiday in the United States.
It's very fun to celebrate as well. You get together with family and you have this nice meal together.
That's right. It's a wonderful holiday. And we'll be talking a bit about it in a second.
But let's just take one more listen to today's dialogue.
So what are you doing for Thanksgiving?
Not much, really. It's more of an American tradition. So back home, we don't really celebrate it.
Well, you know, it's a time to get together with all your family and be thankful for everything.
Once in the New World, they befriended a native named Squanto who taught them how to harvest food from the area, such as corn.
Well, they had enough harvest for the next winter, and in celebration, they decided to have a big feast with the natives,
Count me in.
All right, so Thanksgiving is a national holiday. Now, is it you said it's a Thursday.
It's always on Thursday.
So you get that Thursday off from school, from work and everything.
You get Thursday and Friday.
So you get two days.
Yeah, it's a four day weekend.
And it's a wonderful holiday because it's something that everybody in America can celebrate.
Because, you know, for Christmas, for example, some people don't celebrate Christmas.
Or you don't really get holiday time off during the summer for everyone, maybe just the schoolchildren.
And so this is actually a nice holiday because everybody is home.
Right. So it doesn't have a religious connotation because you're talking about, you know, the settlers and how they arrived there
and they survived a harsh winter.
And so, as you say, it's kind of like a neutral holiday where you just it's a good excuse to get together, have a big meal
and just spend quality time with the family.
That's right. You cook all day. You eat. You watch some football on TV.
You spend some time with your family and you fall asleep very, very full.
So this is another very interesting thing is that usually on TV, because everyone is home,
everyone is having dinner or spending time with each other, they will have a football game on TV for Thanksgiving.
That's right. So everyone's sitting around eating dinner and then there's a football game on the TV.
Wow. So that kind of that's kind of bad for the football players that have to be playing on Thanksgiving Day.
Yeah, but they get all hungry, you know, out there on the field and they get to go home and eat a big turkey.
And have a big meal. It's very, very interesting.
We'll put some pictures of the food that is commonly served on this holiday.
And it would be interesting to know if I know a lot of our listeners are not originally from the United States.
So if you are there, tell us if you've celebrated it or how have you seen it or will you celebrate it or any story that you can share with us.
That's right. We are very excited to hear this from you and we wish you all a very happy Thanksgiving.
Visit our site EnglishPod.com to tell us more.
All right. We'll see you guys there. Bye.
And today at EnglishPod, we have a lesson for you about small talk.
We continue with our series about short casual conversations you may have with your friends,
somebody you haven't seen in a long time, or maybe even a co-worker.
So in today's dialogue, we're going to listen to two people who work in the same building.
They're going to talk a little bit about travel, right Marco?
And a little bit about recommending a place to go on vacation, maybe Europe.
And so we're going to have some great phrases as to speaking of this topic very briefly
with a friend.
Let's listen to today's dialogue.
Good to see you.
Are you at lunch?
Oh, hi, Jim.
No, I just got back.
I thought you were on vacation now.
No, I wish I was.
I just got back from Spain, actually.
Oh, wonderful.
Have you been there before or was it your first time?
My first time.
I've traveled around Europe a lot, but this was my first time to Spain.
It was amazing and the weather was just beautiful.
No rain and just sun, sun, sun.
I'm so jealous of you.
I've never been anywhere in Europe.
I've always dreamed of traveling around and seeing the sights.
Well, I really recommend Spain.
You really should go.
Anyway, it's been great to catch up, but I must be going.
This is my floor.
Speak again soon, I hope.
So, now, let's take a look at some of the language on Language Takeaway.
In Language Takeaway, we've got a couple of words and phrases for you.
The first one is, I just got back.
So, to get back from somewhere, Marco.
That's right, Jim.
Just got back from Europe.
And when you say, I just got back, is I recently or very recently returned from somewhere.
To get back from somewhere means to return from that place.
So, in this dialogue, Jim just got back from Spain.
Michelle just got back from lunch.
This means to return from somewhere.
So, it can be a place, not only a country, but it can be, for example, the office.
I just got back from work.
Or I just got back from football practice.
That's why I'm very sweaty.
So, this obviously means that you are now not in the same place where you just got back
No, I'm from America.
I went to Spain on vacation and I just got back from Spain.
That means I'm in America again.
You're not still in Spain.
So, that's for our first word.
Now, let's go on.
And Michelle said, oh, I'm so jealous of you.
Jealous is an adjective and a very, very common one.
You can use it in many different circumstances.
It means to want what someone else has.
So, in this case, Michelle is jealous that Jim went on vacation.
So, she wishes she could go on vacation.
Or if you see someone who has a new pair of shoes and you like the shoes because you don't
have them, you can say, I'm so jealous.
I love your shoes.
And if you're jealous, you say, I am jealous.
Or if you're jealous of a person, you say, I am jealous of you.
And so, they were ending their conversation and Jim said, you know what?
It's been great to catch up with you.
This is a really important phrase, to catch up.
It means two different things.
And we're going to talk about one meaning here today.
To catch up with someone, like to talk to them about what they've been doing recently,
means to learn about their life because maybe you haven't talked in a long time.
So, maybe you haven't seen your friend in two years and you go out for dinner to catch
up, to talk about what has happened in your life recently.
Or if you see a friend on the street and you know that you haven't seen him or her in a
long time, you can make a date to catch up.
So, hey Marco, I haven't seen you in months.
Let's catch up sometime soon.
And that means to share information and to find out how you have been recently.
Now, when he was getting out of the elevator, he said, this is my floor.
Now, we know floor, but my floor, what is this?
My floor, your floor, whose floor?
This doesn't make much sense, does it?
Well, actually floor here means that this is the floor that I work on or the floor that
I live on.
It means the place I'm going to.
So, we know floor, the ground beneath our feet in a building.
But in this case, we're talking about one of the levels of a building.
So, maybe the sixth floor.
So, if I'm in my apartment building in the elevator, I can say, oh, stop the elevator.
I want to get off the elevator.
This is where I live.
So, a lot of great stuff there.
Why don't we take a break and listen to the dialogue again?
I've traveled around Europe a lot, but this is my first time to Spain.
So, now let's take a look at four key phrases on Fluency Builder.
So, there are some keys to these small talk conversations and they are definitely the
The first one we have here is, good to see you.
So, Jim says, hey, Michelle, good to see you.
So, we've chosen this phrase because it's very casual and very common to use as a polite
way of saying, hey, how are you?
I'm actually showing you that I'm happy that I am talking to you.
So, this is a very flexible phrase.
You can say it at the beginning of a conversation when you just see someone, hey, Marco, good
to see you.
Or at the end, you can say, it was very good to see you.
I hope to see you again soon.
So, maybe you can use it at the beginning if you just begin to talk to someone or if
you're saying goodbye, you can say, well, you know what?
I have to go now, but it's been good to see you.
So, very flexible phrase.
Now, when Michelle thought that Jim was on vacation, Jim said, no, no, no.
I wish I was.
I thought you were on vacation.
So, she thought that he was still on vacation in Spain.
And he says, well, I'm not because, you know, here I am, but I wish I was.
I wish I was in Spain right now because Spain is so nice.
So, it may seem a little bit strange, but it's actually completing the idea.
And basically, we're using the verb to be because that's the question.
Are you on vacation?
No, I wish I was on vacation.
So, that means he's not, but he wants to be.
Okay, so now, he actually had to get going and he used this exact phrase.
He said, I must be going.
I must be going.
Now, remember this as a phrase.
This is a good way to end a conversation.
Maybe you have to go to work.
Maybe you have your kids at home.
You have to take them somewhere.
So, you say, I'm really sorry, I must be going, but let's see each other again soon.
So, you are politely ending the conversation.
You are politely saying, I can't talk to you anymore.
I must be going now, but it's been great to talk to you.
Very polite.
So, remember this one.
It's better than, I'm going now.
We don't say that.
Yeah, or I have to go.
Well, you can say, I have to go, but it's nice saying, oh, you know what?
I really like talking to you, but I must be going now.
And Jim also finished by saying, we'll speak again soon.
And Michelle said, for sure.
Now, Americans particularly love to say this phrase.
For sure means yes, or I agree, or definitely.
You can use it as an interjection.
So, if I say, hey, Catherine, am I going to see you later on today?
So, you're saying yes, absolutely, definitely, for sure.
So, Marco, my birthday is Friday night.
Are you going to come to the party?
I wouldn't miss it for the world.
So, that's all we have for today.
Why don't we review everything we've taken a look at now and listen to the dialogue one
last time.
So, this was another part of our small talk series.
As you can see, very short, but very useful language used to talk very briefly with someone.
You meet somebody at the elevator or you just want to talk very quickly.
Yeah, but you don't want to talk about anything that's too personal like someone's politics
or their religious beliefs or their children because maybe you don't know them very well.
So, these are really great topics to talk about like business trips or vacation or the
English speakers love to talk about these when they don't know someone that well.
So, if you have any questions or any comments about this lesson or you want to suggest any
other topics, you can find us at EnglishPod.com.
I will see you guys later, take care.
My name is Catherine and today we have a lesson for you all about school.
Today we're going to take a look at a child's report card.
So we're going to talk a little bit about what this means, what is a report card and
also everything that's inside this report.
So we're going to learn how to describe a child's schoolwork.
So let's listen to our dialogue and we'll be back in a minute to discuss the meaning
of some of these words and phrases.
Look, Jimmy's report card came today.
Where are all the grades?
He's in the third grade, Sam.
You see, under each subject that he's being taught in school, he receives a mark from
one to three.
A one means his achievement or work is excellent.
Here in science, for example, he got a two, which means it's satisfactory.
What about here in physical education?
He got a three here, which means it's unsatisfactory.
We should work on that with him.
So confusing.
In my day, we got an A or a B if we were doing well and if we failed an exam, we would get
an F. All right, we're back.
So now let's start with some language takeaway.
All right, the first phrase here we have in language takeaway is actually a thing.
It's the report card and this is the topic of today's dialogue.
Now you may remember, I'm sure pretty much it's standard everywhere in the world.
You get a report, a small little report that tells your parents how well or how poorly
you are doing in school.
And then after maybe two or three months, your teacher will write down how she or he
thinks that you're performing at school.
And usually parents have to sign this.
They have to say, okay, I see that my child is doing well or that he's doing poorly and
then the teacher will know as well.
And I think, well, you get report cards in elementary school, in high school and also
in university, right?
You do get a report card of some sort.
Well, in university in America, we call them grades.
We don't really call them a report card.
In high school, middle school and elementary school, so before college, we actually have
a piece of paper and that's why it's called a card.
I think now for universities especially, you just go online and you see your grades.
It's on the internet.
But the important thing about the report card is that it tells a parent and a student what
his or her grades are.
So, grades, this is a noun, is basically your score.
So, maybe you took a test and you did very well on your test and you had some homework
and you did very well on your homework, so you have a good grade.
But if you don't do your homework and you don't do well on your test, you have a bad
grade.
So, for example, like in the United States, it's over 100 points.
So maybe a good grade would be 95 points out of 100.
So we call that an A. That's called an A. That's right.
Or if you have a bad grade, maybe that's an F, which is 20% or 30%.
So now, this is where we need to make a difference between the grades that his father was looking
for and then the mom says he's in the third grade.
So it's very different between having good grades or bad grades and fifth grade or third
Two different grades.
And we know this is confusing.
I'm going to explain a little bit.
Third grade is actually the third year of elementary school.
So in the American education system, we start in kindergarten and we have first grade, second
grade, third grade, all the way up until the end, which is 12th grade.
So it's everything between when you're five years old and when you're 18 years old.
And each year at school is a grade, a level.
And as you said, it's a grade in different parts of the country.
I'm not really sure if they call them a grades or they have the same system, but basically,
that's what it means in English.
You have first grade, third grade, 12th grade, finally, when you graduate.
So you can say my son is in eighth grade.
It means he's in his eighth year of school.
So that is the difference.
And now, we're going to take a look at something that has to do with grades as well, is the
marks that you get in your test or in your report card.
So this might actually help.
Remember when we said on your report card, your teacher might write down your grade.
That means do you have an A or a B or a C?
Well, another way to call this is a mark.
So he has good marks.
He has good grades.
So they're basically the same thing, grades and marks.
And I know that in Britain, I think people more commonly say marks.
She got terrible marks at school and her father was angry with her.
But in America, we often say, if you get good grades, I'll buy you sweets.
So you get a prize if you get good grades usually.
Well, it depends on your parents.
On your parents.
Now, as we said, you can have a grade that's usually a number or a letter like A, B, C,
D, F. But you can also get marks that are just very much black or white.
That's satisfactory or unsatisfactory, like in this case.
So satisfactory, this is an adjective, it describes something, is a good thing.
So how did he do?
Well, his performance was satisfactory.
But if it's bad or if it's not good, we call it unsatisfactory.
So this doesn't really have a number, as you can tell.
It's just basically pass or fail.
That's about it.
Good or bad.
No grade.
And we'll explain this in a minute.
There are some classes where you can't have a grade like an A or a B. And that's why we
have this satisfactory, unsatisfactory.
So we've taken a look at a lot of language there.
In my day, we got an A or a B if we were doing well, and if we failed an exam, we would get
an F.
You could have said, let's have a look, Marco.
That's one of the key phrases in today's dialogue.
He, the dad, got the report card and he said, all right, let's have a look.
All right, this is a very common way to say, let's see, or let me look at that.
So let's have a look.
Maybe it's just one person, me, but we still say this, let, let us.
So it's plural.
It's very weird, but it just means let me look, let me see.
And exactly.
As you said, even though it's in plural and you may be by yourself or only you are going
to look at something, people still say, let's have a look.
Let's have a look here.
It means I want to look at this, so if I say, Hey, I just bought this new CD.
I can say, Hey, let's have a look.
And I could give it to Marco and he can look at the case and see who the musician is.
Now talking about one of the subjects in school, that means some of the classes that you have,
we had science, we have history, and there's another one called physical education.
So this is a class that has many different names.
It's physical, so you know that it has to do with your body.
So basically it's sports class and you play sports like football, basketball, things like
It's also called PE.
PE for short.
Because remember physical in English starts with a P, PH, physical.
But this is what I was saying earlier, Marco, you can't give a person an A or a B in physical
education.
Well, you don't really.
So normally students get satisfactory or unsatisfactory.
Because usually it doesn't mean that you have to be very good at sports.
Sometimes it's just the effort counts.
You may not be very good at soccer or football or basketball, but if you try really hard,
you're running around and you're actually doing what you're supposed to be doing, then
you get a satisfactory note.
It means, yeah, I mean, you're not the best player in the world, but you're doing what
you're supposed to.
So now when the father was talking, he's like, oh, you know, I don't understand this report
card in my day, we got an A or a B.
So this is a common phrase that people say when they want to talk about when they were
children or when they were growing up.
So older people often say, oh, in my day, things were different.
So this is a way to make a comparison between now and the past.
So you're basically saying when I was a child or many years ago, this was what happened
or this is how it used to be.
In my day, school was much more difficult.
Today, it's very, very easy.
So this is how you start this comparison between the time when you were a child to now.
In my day.
And to finish off, we're going to talk about failing an exam because obviously sometimes
you do fail.
So when you fail, fail an exam, you get a very bad grade, an F.
An F.
So F for fail.
It's easy to remember.
So you say, you can say I didn't pass the exam, but you can also say I failed the exam.
And normally fail means you received less than 60%.
Or 50%.
So it's, yeah, 50%.
So basically you missed, if there are 10 questions on the exam, you missed five or six or seven
or all the way to 10 of them.
So you missed more than half of the questions.
And it's not only for school.
For example, your driver's exam, when you're going to get your driver's license, you can
also pass or fail that exam.
And if you fail the exam, you have to take it again.
So that's all the fluency builder words we have for you today.
Let's take a look at them again and we'll be right back.
In my day, we got an A or a B if we were doing well.
And if we failed an exam, we would get an F.
So big question, Marco.
When you were a student, did you get good grades?
I got good grades, but not great grades.
I was always the type of student that paid attention in class, did my homework, but never
studied.
Ah, so you did not study for the tests.
No, but that's why I never got an A, for example, or an A plus.
But I always got a B. So I was that type of just more chilled type of student.
You like to be in the middle.
Well, this was the thing.
I didn't like to pay attention in class, so that was different because I would pay attention,
I would take some notes, but then I would just remember everything.
So I did all right for the exam.
I didn't really have to study.
But sometimes in other subjects I did, I really liked them.
So it wasn't studying.
It was more fun for me.
So then I would get great grades.
I always studied for tests.
Generally my grades were pretty good.
Now something that we didn't talk about here is a GPA.
This is something that is very popular in the United States.
Basically even if you want to apply for schools, your GPA is what counts.
What is a GPA?
Well, we don't really have a GPA until high school, and then it's in high school and college.
And GPA stands for G-Grade P-Point A-Average.
So grade point average.
That means we take all of our marks or all of our grades together.
So science grade, English grade, history grade, and we make an average.
So if I get mostly A's, my GPA is 4.0.
If I get mostly B's, my GPA is 3.0.
And then it goes lower and lower.
And if you have a really bad GPA, like a 1, you probably won't finish high school.
Now the GPA is very important for many reasons.
First of all, because it's also kind of a summary of your application to universities,
They take a look at your GPA.
So this is a way to say, okay, how is this student overall?
How is this student in all of her classes, not just one class?
And then they see if you have a 3.5, they say, oh, well, it's pretty good.
Yeah, 3.5 is good.
4 is the best.
And again, a 3 is good, it's okay.
But a 2 or a 1 is not very good.
So it's very interesting because all around the world, they have different grading systems.
I think I would say that the United States is the only place where I've seen that they
use the A, B, C, D, F system.
In Latin American countries, for example, they don't do it over 100, they do it over
So you would get a grade over 10.
Or in some countries, over 20.
I've seen that as well.
In Italy, it's not.
It's over 20.
So you would get a 14, I think, would be a passing grade over 20.
Well, let us know, listeners, if you have a different grading system in your country.
Also, you can let us know how were your grades when you're studying in school.
You don't have to tell us, but we'd like to talk to you about grades.
This is Inner Circle, signing off.
My name is Catherine and today we're going shopping for something.
What are we going shopping for, Marco?
Today we are buying pants and we're going to try to see if we find a good pair of jeans.
Yeah, sometimes pants are too small, sometimes they're too big.
Let's try and find the right pair today.
Excuse me, can I try on this pair of jeans?
Sure, let me see.
I'm afraid we don't have any size 8's left.
I'm always a size 4.
Here, I'll try these.
They seem a bit too tight.
Shall I find you a larger size?
No, they fit fine.
They show off my curves perfectly.
Yeah, your love handles.
They sure do, although here, you forgot to close this button.
I'll do it now.
Now, let's take a look at some vocab on Language Takeaway.
All right, so today on Language Takeaway, the first phrase we have is actually a verbal
This is what we do when we go to find some clothes.
We try on those clothes.
So, this is, as you said, a verbal phrase and to try on a pair of pants or to try on
some clothes is to put them on and see if they are okay, if they're the right size.
So, if I'm in the store and I see a shirt that I really like, I go to the dressing room
to try it on.
Or you could say, oh my gosh, Marco, come here.
This shirt is great.
You should try it on.
So, you try it on or you try on something.
So, as we said, we wanted to try on a pair of jeans.
So, let's take a look at this connection of words, pair of jeans.
So, you don't have a jeans.
You have a pair of them.
And this is because you have not one but two legs.
So, pair means two of something.
So, it doesn't mean that you have two pants, right?
It doesn't mean that you have two pieces of clothing.
It means that you have one piece of clothing that's a pair of jeans.
So, you have one part for one leg and one part for another leg.
The same is true of glasses because glasses are for your two eyes.
So, you have a pair of glasses.
A pair of glasses, a pair of shoes.
So, we are trying on these pair of jeans but they seem to be a bit too tight.
So, tight is a word we use when something is too small.
It's hard to move if something is too tight.
So, maybe if the pants are too small, they might be too tight.
And we often say this especially to girls.
My mom used to say this, oh no, you're not wearing that skirt.
It's too tight.
You can see your body underneath.
So, actually the opposite would be loose if something is too big.
Too big.
If it's too big, it's loose.
If it's too small, it's tight.
Now, if it's not too big and not too small, then that means it fits.
It fits.
So, I could say, I think I want to buy this pair of jeans.
It fits very well.
So, if the pants or the pair of jeans fit, it means they are okay for you.
They're not too big, not too small.
They're comfortable.
Comfortable.
And in this case, she said that they fit perfectly because they show off her curves.
Now, what is she talking about my curves?
Well, a curve is something that's not straight.
It bends.
When we're talking about a person's curves, we're talking about maybe a woman's hips or
her behind, her rear end or her chest.
And so, women who have curves maybe are rounder, not flat.
So, it's something that usually you would use with girls, right?
A girl has nice curves.
You wouldn't really say that for a guy, I think.
No, guys, you don't really talk about curves.
But with girls, usually you can see someone's curves if she wears tight clothes.
So, why don't we take a break?
Let's review all this vocab and we'll be back in a bit with Fluency Builder.
Can I borrow this pair of jeans?
I'm afraid we don't have any size 8s left.
Can I find you a larger size?
They sure do.
Although, here, you forgot to close this button.
Now it's time for three phrases.
Let's take a look at those on Fluency Builder.
So we heard this phrase here, I'm afraid, and it means something maybe different from
what you've heard before.
So the shopkeeper said, I'm afraid we don't have any size 8s left.
So, when you start a sentence like this, you're basically apologizing a little bit, right?
It's like saying, I'm sorry, I don't think we have size 8s left.
So maybe I go into the store and I say, well, I would like some chocolate milk, please.
And I say, I'm sorry, I'm afraid we ran out of chocolate milk.
I'm afraid we ran out.
So this means it's too bad or unfortunately, we don't have any.
So it's not the same being afraid like you're being, you're scared.
No, it's not that afraid.
It's a polite way for usually a shopkeeper to say, I'm sorry, we can't help you.
So coming back to curves, the girl used this interesting phrasal verb there, to show off.
So we know the word to show, but to show something off, to show off means to display or exhibit.
It's almost like you want other people to look at you.
So if, I guess maybe you can see it on the street, if someone is in their car and they're
playing loud music, kind of drawing attention to their car, they're kind of showing off
their car.
They want you to see their car or just hear how great sound system they have.
Or some women will wear very, very short skirts because they want to show off their long legs.
But now something that you don't really want to show off are your love handles.
Now this is a very funny phrase.
It's actually something we say in spoken English that if you say it to someone else, it might
be very rude.
Love handles are the part of your body above your waist that if you have a little fat,
it's like they're squishy.
You can touch them.
So just think about how maybe people that are a little bit overweight, they put on a
pair of pants and on their sides, in their waist, the extra skin that kind of is around
the pants, that's called love handles.
And we say love handles because when someone hugs you or they want to hold you, that's
where they put their hands.
There's extra to hold on to.
I think sometimes they may be called like tires or something like this.
Well, spare tire is in the front.
It's near your belly.
So that's called a spare tire.
So a spare tire is in the front.
It's a belly.
Normally, when people drink a lot of beer, very often they have a spare tire.
But this is actually love handles are on the sides.
But that's our last word today.
Let's remember that it's not something you want to go around telling people they have,
but you can joke with your friends about it.
Can I try on this pair of jeans?
I'm afraid we don't have any size eights left.
I'm always a size four.
Although here, you forgot to close this button.
So speaking about pants, I've noticed something that the girl asked for a size four, but she
really was a size eight.
So how does this work?
Because as guys, we don't have size fours, five or ones or anything.
You buy a pair of jeans, you say size 32 in the waist and size 30 in length or something
Men's clothes usually indicate the size of your waist.
So 32 is a 32 inch waist.
But women's clothes don't have those measurements.
And I sometimes think it would be better if we did, because it's very hard.
Some stores have size four, which is one size, but if you go to another store, it's very
So you always have to try on these clothes.
But normally in America, the sizes go from zero, which is the very, very smallest to
14 or 16, which is the largest.
Normal size for most women would be an eight, I think, an eight or a 10.
And now obviously this depends on the countries, because like for example, being in Asia, in
China, the women are usually a little bit thinner or smaller.
So it's harder, I think, for, it's harder to actually have this universal form of measurements
for girls.
So in the back of your pants, for example, there'll usually be some fabric and it will
say the size according to different countries.
So in America, size six, in China, size, I don't know, 28.
And so they'll have the different numbers.
And UK is also a different size.
Kind of like your shoes.
If you look inside your shoe, it'll say, I think, a Japanese size, the UK size, which
is like 41, 42, and the USA size, which is like size eight or nine.
So, it's very, very interesting, especially when you're buying clothes, you have to remember
what size you are and you have to ask the person to, that you try it on.
Because some things I know you can't try on, right?
And in some stores, you have to ask for help to take things off the racks.
So it can be very difficult.
But normally, if you say, hey, can I try this on, the shopkeeper will help you.
And of course, if you have any questions or you want to comment on this lesson or any
of our lessons, you can find us at EnglishPod.com.
Much surfing.
My name is Catherine and we've got another lesson in our series about small talk today.
Today we are at the office again and we're going to be talking very briefly about something,
a business meeting that we're going to have soon.
So let's check out our dialogue.
I'm Michelle.
Hi, I was hoping to see you.
How's the family?
Oh, hello, Mr. Campbell.
I'm fine and Jack's doing well.
I got your report this morning.
Thanks for that.
Are you joining the conference today?
Yes, I'm leaving at 4 p.m.
Well, we can discuss this more then.
But I think the figures are looking very good for this quarter.
Yes, me too.
I'm planning to discuss the advertising budget at the conference.
I don't think we should continue with the TV advertising.
No, me neither. It's far too expensive.
Well, let's discuss this more at the conference. Maybe we can share a taxi there?
All right, we're back, so now let's take a look at some vocab on Language Takeaway.
Today in Language Takeaway we have a number of phrases and words about business. The first
one we have is, are you joining the conference today?
That's right. So we're going to go to a conference, actually, which is a little bit different
than a meeting.
That's right. A meeting is something you normally do with people at your own company. But a
conference is when people from many different companies meet.
That's right. And also, I think you don't really have too much input at a conference.
You mostly listen to other people speak about a topic or a subject.
That's right. And I think these are normally held in conference centers or hotels. You
have a nice lunch. So they're pretty big deals.
That's right. All right, so it's more of a formal business conference that we're going
to. And well, they're actually going to discuss different aspects of the company as well,
especially the figures.
All right. So in the context of business, the word figure actually means number. Okay,
so we can say the sales numbers for this year are a kind of figure.
That's right. So we're talking about money, basically, when we're talking about numbers.
That's right. So when the figures look good, it means that our income, our revenue, this
looks good.
That's right. And when we usually talk about income or revenue, we usually have to separate
it into time. And here in the dialogue, we're talking about a quarter.
All right, so quarter, Q-U, quarter, is a period of time, very common in business, that
is a quarter of the year. So three months.
Three months, that's right.
January, February, March, April, May, June, and so on.
That's right. So you have four quarters. And that's actually what, that's why you call
it a quarter because it's one fourth.
So we can say the figures for the first quarter were very good, but unfortunately, the figures
for the second quarter were very bad.
That's right. And actually, another similar way that you use quarter is the 25 cent coin.
It's called a quarter because it's a quarter of a dollar.
That's right. And if you're in America, you know that it has an eagle, a bird on one side
of it.
That's right. All right, so we are taking a look at the figures for the quarter. And
they're saying, well, it's not looking too good because we need to talk about the advertising
budget.
All right. So this is something that you think is very important. It's budget. It's how much
money you have to spend on something. And in this case, you're spending it on advertising.
So this is ads that you make.
That's right. So as you said, a budget is the amount of money that you have available
to spend on something. And on this occasion, we're talking about advertising. Now, you
can have a budget for different things, right?
You could have a marketing budget.
So the money you have for marketing.
You could have a personnel budget, which is the money you would set aside for people.
So how much you pay your employees. Right. So you can pretty much mix up many different
nouns with budget. Even you can have a budget for your home. How much you spend at home.
That's right. So many people have this for their families. They say this month I will
spend $100 on shopping and $200 on shoes.
So it's like a family budget, you would call it.
That's right. Okay. So that's all the words we have for you on language takeaway. Let's
review everything quickly and we'll be back in a bit with Fluency Builder.
Ah, Michelle. Hi. I was hoping to see you. How have you been? How's the family?
Oh, hello, Mr. Campbell. I'm fine and Jack's doing well. How are you?
I'm fine. Thanks. I got your report this morning. Thanks for that. Are you joining the conference
Good. Well, we can discuss this more then. But I think the figures are looking very good
for this quarter.
I'm planning to discuss the advertising budget at the conference. I don't think we should
continue with the TV advertising.
Well, let's discuss this more at the conference. Maybe we can share a taxi there.
Alright, in today's Fluency Builder, we have a number of phrases you could use in a small
talk situation. The first one's a question. How's the family?
How's the family? Now, it's how apostrophe s the family, right? So how is the family
would be the extended way of saying it.
That's right. But this is a short way to say it. It's very common. And you normally say
this with people who are a little bit older, people who have kids. So I haven't seen you
in a long time, Marco, and I know you have some kids and I can say, how's the family?
How's the family? That's right. And it's actually, it may seem strange the way that this sentence
is made, but it's very, very much similar to how are you? You have how to be and you
in the subject.
That's right. And this is a very polite way to say hi. How are you? How is your family?
How is the wife?
How's the wife? And she said, well, you know what? Everything is great. I'm fine. And Jack's,
I guess that's her husband, is doing well.
Jack is doing well. So doing well, thanks. This means good. Okay. But you know, when
we say the answer to this question, how are you? I'm well. That's the correct answer.
I'm good is not correct.
Right. So if somebody says, how are you? You can say, I'm well. Or you can say, I'm doing
That's a positive answer. Things are going well. You could say, not so well. That's not
a, not, not, not good things are happening.
Very good. And it's very important to point out the difference. As Catherine said, you
don't, you don't, you shouldn't use good. I'm doing good or I'm good.
Yeah, no, it's incorrect because good is an adjective and we're, we're looking for an
adverb here.
That's correct. All right. And to finish things off, Mr. Campbell and Michelle were headed,
headed the same way. So they decided to share a taxi.
That's right. So to share a taxi means two people or three people will pay for one taxi
together. So maybe Marco, I see you on the street and I know that you have to go to a
conference. I'm going to the same conference. Let's share a taxi. It will cost less.
That's right. So you will share the cost between all the people in the cab. Now there's another
way of saying it as well. More common, I think in the, in the United States.
That's right. We say split a taxi. Let's split a cab.
Split a cab. Now remember that it's a taxi cab. So sometimes people just don't say taxi.
They say a cab. Let's split a cab. Let's share a cab.
That's right. Cab, taxi, both are okay.
All right. Very good. Good stuff. Let's listen to everything one last time.
today? Yes, I'm leaving at 4 p.m.
for this quarter. Yes, me too.
continue with the TV advertising. No, me neither. It's far too expensive.
Yes, sure. All right. So we're getting towards the end
of our Small Talk series. As you can see, we are taking a look at different quick but
very useful dialogues that you can have with someone, a small conversation, whether about
business, family, whatever. That's right. And in today's dialogue, we
heard two people who probably know each other talking. So sometimes you're with people who
are strangers, you don't know what to say to them. You can listen to our other episodes
on Small Talk for things to talk about with those people.
That's right. And of course, if you have any questions or comments, you can visit us at
EnglishPod.com. We hope to see you all there. Until next
time. Bye.
My name is Catherine and today we're going to buy some food at a store for basically
bread, right Marco?
Today we're going to a bakery.
So, this is basically a shop where they sell bread and different types of bread actually.
So, we're going to learn all about these different kinds of bread.
Welcome to Al's Bakery.
Hi, let me get a dozen croissants, four blueberry muffins and a loaf of sourdough bread.
Would you like to have the loaf sliced?
Do you have any whole wheat bread?
Oh, we're out at the moment.
May I suggest some rye bread?
Sure, that sounds good.
Do you have any cakes?
We have various birthday cakes and also some ice cream cakes.
I'll just take a cheesecake.
Will that be all?
Your total is $43.20.
So, now let's take a look at some vocab on Language Takeaway.
In Language Takeaway today we have many different kinds of bread.
The first kind actually comes to English from the French language.
We have croissants.
That's right, croissants.
Now, as you say, this is a type of bread that comes from France, I guess.
It's buttery and flaky and it's in the shape of a crescent.
So, it's like a curve, like a C. It kind of looks like also horns because it's got two
little... It's got a horn on each side.
Many people like to eat this for breakfast in France, but you can find it everywhere
in America at cafes and bakeries.
So, those are croissants.
Now we're also buying blueberry muffins.
Okay, muffins are a delicious baked good.
Blueberry muffins are the flavor, so we can also have strawberry or orange.
But in this case a muffin is kind of like a sweet baked good.
It's round.
So, it's kind of like a cake, like a little cake.
It is like a little cake.
The top is bigger than the bottom.
So, the bottom you have some paper to hold on to and the top is round and maybe a little
bit hard.
So, those are muffins.
We'll post pictures of these on the site so you can see what they look like.
But moving on now, we have a type of bread.
This is a sourdough bread.
So, there are many, many, many different kinds of breads, but sourdough is very unique because
the flavor is a little bit sour.
So, dough is the substance or what you use to make bread, right, or before bread is baked.
So, before you make bread, it's kind of like a liquid.
You have some milk or water that you mix with flour, so you have to hold it in a bowl or
a cup.
And after you bake it, it becomes hard.
So, dough is when it's soft and like a liquid.
You've seen it when they're making bread.
They have this, it looks like a paste sometimes and then it becomes hard or when they're making
pizzas that's called dough.
And sour, obviously, because it has that flavor that you said, a very strong sour flavor.
And a different kind of bread that we might find is whole wheat bread.
Now, this is like the healthy choice.
Yes, it's normally the healthy choice.
That's because the flour that we put in the dough is whole wheat flour.
It's a little bit healthier.
It's actually a little bit darker than white flour, so it'll be brown.
So, yeah, it's basically the brown bread.
I think if you've noticed when you go to the store and you can get bread, you'll find one
that looks white on the inside and this one actually looks brown on the inside.
And an even more brown colored bread, maybe even black, is rye bread.
So, what is rye?
Rye is another kind of grain and when you bake this rye bread, it has a very strong
flavor and it's very, very dark, almost black.
It's actually my favorite kind of bread.
So, what does it taste like or what's the difference between whole wheat bread and rye
bread?
Rye bread is much heavier.
It has a stronger flavor.
Whole wheat bread is lighter.
So, obviously, it may be a little bit difficult to understand the differences between the
breads, but we'll post pictures on the site so you can see them.
And also, well, you have to go out to the bakery and try them so you can taste the difference.
So, now let's move on to language takeaway part two and talk about a little bit more
of the other vocab found in this lesson.
Let me get a dozen croissants, four blueberry muffins, and a loaf of sourdough bread.
So, when you want to go buy some bread or some baked goods, you have to know how to
count those goods.
Okay, so today we have a couple of words to help you count bread.
The first one we have is dozen.
So, for croissants, as you can see, it's a countable noun.
And so, when you ask for a dozen croissants, you're asking for 12.
So, in English, the word dozen means 12.
You can buy a dozen eggs or in this case, a dozen blueberry muffins maybe.
So, it's a very popular term, a dozen or a half a dozen.
Sometimes people just buy six.
So, half a dozen is six.
A whole dozen, just say dozen, is 12.
You can also have something special called a baker's dozen.
Yes, I've heard about this.
What is a baker's dozen?
Well, a baker's dozen is basically a present the baker gives you.
So, you buy 12, maybe 12 croissants and the baker gives you one more.
Wow, so you get 13.
A baker's dozen is 13.
But do you ask for a baker's dozen or does the baker say, I'm going to give you the baker's
dozen?
I don't think I've ever asked for it.
I think when I've bought bagels and I say I want a dozen bagels, they give me a baker's
dozen.
They give me 13.
So, when you're buying bread, now obviously you don't really buy a dozen sourdough breads.
You buy a dozen loaves of sourdough bread.
So, the countable noun here is a loaf of bread.
One loaf, two loaves.
Now, this is very interesting because in English, we don't have that many counting words, measure
But for bread, we do actually have this special word.
So, you can say, I would like two loaves of sourdough bread.
And a loaf or loaves in the plural, what is it exactly?
It's one big piece.
So, for example, you have maybe one little piece of bread.
It's called a slice.
That's what you eat.
But when you buy the bread, you have many, many, many slices together.
Before you cut the bread, that's called a loaf.
And this is the reason why the baker or the person attending the shop asked if he would
like to have the loaf sliced.
Would you like the loaf sliced?
That means, would you like us to cut pieces of bread from this loaf?
Because sliced bread is how you eat it.
You don't really take a whole loaf of bread and start eating it like that.
Like an animal.
You cut it into slices.
So, sliced bread, we say, is one option.
You can also have unsliced, which means when you go home, you cut it yourself.
So this is a very particular word as well because you have the adjective to have sliced
You also have the verb to slice the bread.
That means to cut it into slices.
And of course, you have the noun slices of bread.
So you have the individual pieces.
So it can be a verb, an adjective, and a noun.
It can be a little confusing, but I recommend you all check out the website and practice
a little bit in the comments section.
So let's take a listen to the dialogue one last time.
So speaking about breads now, there is some particular ingredients that we don't mention
in the dialogue, obviously.
But they're worth mentioning, what is the one main characteristic that most breads have?
Yeast.
Y-E-A-S-T.
And yeast is actually alive.
It's an animal.
It's like a bacteria.
And so you wonder why are some breads flat and why are some breads big, poofy, large?
Well, yeast is why.
Basically, you can't have a big poofy bread, a big, large, tall bread, unless you have
this yeast.
So yeast is what makes the bread rise.
And we also mentioned flour, which is basically just a powder made out of some type of grain
usually.
Usually it's made out of wheat.
Obviously, whole wheat is a little bit different from the white flour, which would be a different
processed wheat.
But we also have different things that you can even have rice flour.
Corn flour.
So corn bread would be, of course, yellow because corn is yellow.
Now, so you can hear that we say the word flour like a rose is a flower, but it's actually
spelled different.
F-L-O-U-R, flour.
So there's two different things.
There's flours in your garden and there's flour, F-L-O-U-R, which is something you can
cook with.
These are called homophones.
So they basically have the same pronunciation, but very different spellings.
And very different meanings.
So a very interesting lesson for us today.
Go out, get some bread, try some of these if you have them available.
But also, come to the questions and comments section and tell us about maybe your local
I know that many countries around the world have very specific types of bread.
Write some names down for us, send us your pictures, and we'll see you on the website.
That way we don't have to worry about typing out the whole disclaimer and come up with
all the answers at the end.
And we just love hearing from you.
Oh, I saw that one.
I'm not going to watch that.
My name is Katherine and today we have an upper intermediate level lesson for you about
some very interesting things.
Today we're going to talk about fortune tellers or people that read your future.
Alright so if I want to know who I will marry, if I will be rich, I will go to this fortune
teller and she or he will tell me what's in my future.
It's very popular in many cultures around the world, many different ways of reading
your future or telling you your future.
So let's jump into this dialogue and see what's going on today.
Look at this newspaper article about this famous local medium.
It says that she is really gifted and so popular now that she's booked solid with appointments
for the next 12 months.
You don't really believe in all that hocus pocus mumbo jumbo do you?
Well I have had many friends that went to a psychic and got their palms read and most
of the things the psychic told them came true.
Of course it does.
They tell you general and obvious things like that you'll be successful or have a big house.
I think most of the times they're just scam artists.
Well historically it's a practice that many cultures share.
Reading the tarot cards.
In the east they would even read tea leaves.
I even heard that there are people that make you smoke a cigar and then read your ashes.
All superstitious nonsense.
I would still like to go to one and see what he or she has to say just for kicks.
I'll make an appointment.
Let's take a look at some of those words on Language Takeaway.
So in Language Takeaway today we are focusing on some words that describe fortune telling
but also the different ways of doing so.
The first word we have is actually a name for a person who can read the future.
Right Marco?
A medium.
In the dialogue we hear about a woman who is a medium and is very talented.
Actually a medium is interesting because a medium is a person who can communicate with
the dead.
Or who can communicate with the other side.
But if you think about middle, medium, I mean they mean the same thing.
It's someone who is in the middle of two things.
And so a medium can maybe transmit these different ideas or signals.
So it's a person that basically communicates as you say with the dead or someone that can
listen to people who are not here anymore.
But obviously they are a type of person that could also use this gift to tell your future
or to have the people who are dead tell you what's going to happen in the future.
And so another kind of person who would do something similar is a psychic.
Alright now a psychic is a person who generally will read your future for you, will tell you
the future.
Maybe the psychic will have a special tool like a crystal ball.
Just remember that in English, psych, like psychology, psychosis has to do with your
mind.
So a psychic uses their mind to find out things about you or your future.
So sometimes psychics will claim that they can read your mind as well.
It's a little scary.
So as you say, these are different, these are people who supposedly can tell you your
future.
And as you said, they use different methods or different tools.
One of them is for example having your palms read.
Alright, so the psychic will go to you Marco and will look at your hand and will read your
palm.
Now where on your hand is your palm?
It's on the other side, the side where you grab things with.
The inside, so the soft part.
And maybe on your palm you have many different lines.
So the psychic will look at the lines and will say, oh well this line is very long,
so you will have a long, long life.
So maybe in your hands you have lines that determine how much money you will have or
how many kids you will have or how long you will live.
So that's called a palm reading.
Or I am going to have my palm read.
Now the other person doesn't really believe in all that stuff and says that they are just
scam artists.
So he's saying that the psychics or the mediums are just scam artists.
Alright, so what is a scam artist?
Well a scam artist is not a real artist.
A scam artist is a thief, someone who will maybe tell you a story or who will lie to
you to try and take your money.
So he's not really like a robber, like somebody that will break into your house and take your
No, he won't use a gun, maybe, hopefully not, but he will tell you a story or will lie to
you in a way that makes you want to give him money.
So I don't know if any of you have ever received an email from someone who said, I am a wealthy
person from a different part of the world and I want you to give me money to help me
so I can come to America and these kinds of things where you don't know the person, he's
probably lying to you, it's a very sad story.
I say please give me money so I can come to visit you or so I can come and have a good
That's a scam artist.
People probably don't have a bad life, they just want you to give them money.
So that is a scam artist.
And well he went on to say about how all of these things, about fortune telling, about
psychics and everything is just superstitious nonsense.
So then the girl went on to explain and saying that it's not really true that many cultures
do things like, for example, read the tarot cards.
Alright so we had palm reading first, maybe talking to dead people with a medium.
But this is another tool that psychics use to communicate with maybe the dead or to understand
So we have tarot cards and they're actually cards, like playing cards, but they're a little
bit different, right?
They don't have diamonds and hearts, they have different pictures.
Right, they have pictures of, for example, a king or a queen or a picture of a river
or different symbols that basically the person who is getting their fortune read will take
it and move them and shuffle them and then will start flipping the cards over and then
you will see supposedly what your future will be like.
Alright so those are tarot cards.
But we have one more word here and it actually comes from the friend who doesn't believe
in these scam artists.
It calls it all superstitious nonsense.
So a person that is superstitious believes in superstitions and those are beliefs of
good or bad luck.
Yeah that's right.
So if I believe that the number 13 is very very bad, I will avoid the number 13.
I won't sit down in chair number 13, I won't buy a house on floor number 13 because I'm
superstitious.
I believe that that number is bad luck.
So many believe that it's bad luck to break a mirror or to walk under a ladder.
Yes, also many Americans believe it's bad luck to open an umbrella inside.
So it's interesting because many cultures around the world have different types of superstitions
but we'll talk about that in a little bit.
Why don't we move on now to some fluency builder and take a look at some phrases.
I'll book an appointment.
An important phrase that you don't have to be a psychic to use is booked solid.
Now we heard this in the beginning of the dialogue.
Right because this person is so famous that so many people want to go there and get their
fortunes read that this person is already booked solid for the next 12 months.
Okay now booked solid is a very nice colloquial way to describe having no time for anything
So basically if a restaurant for example is booked solid it means there are no tables
available.
Nothing is available.
Everything is already reserved.
Yeah it happens also with hotels.
Some hotels during let's say the Olympics many of them are booked solid for the entire
Or you could even say this with your friends.
You say hey Marco do you want to hang out Thursday say 7 o'clock.
Sorry I'm booked solid the entire day.
Popular guy.
So you can say that a person is booked solid or that a business is booked solid.
Now this next phrase is kind of more it's not really real words but we say they are
hocus pocus mumbo jumbo.
Alright hocus pocus is a way to describe superstitious things.
Like magic right because I think it comes from supposedly it's a spell that witches
or wizards will say like hocus pocus and things will appear.
Abracadabra.
Hocus yeah.
But basically this is something that we say when we're joking now in English.
So I'll say oh gosh Marco I just broke this mirror.
Seven years bad luck.
Do you really believe in all that hocus pocus?
Yes I'm very superstitious.
So hocus pocus here means superstitious.
Like magic superstitious stuff.
It's all hocus pocus.
What about mumbo jumbo?
Mumbo jumbo is also something we say when we're talking about magic or things that are
So I can say I don't believe in any of that superstitious mumbo jumbo.
It means basically I don't trust it.
I don't think it's true.
I think it's silly.
Right so mumbo jumbo you refer to that nonsense that irrational or unbelievable stuff.
That's right it's irrational.
So hocus referring to magic mumbo jumbo referring to superstition or things that are not really
believable let's say.
And to end the dialogue the guy says well you know what okay let's go to this psychic
and see what she has to say just for kicks.
Just for kicks.
Now I love this phrase.
I use it a lot.
It's very very colloquial very spoken English so you guys should try to use it.
It means just for fun.
Just for fun.
So I'm not going because I believe.
Because I just said I think it's hocus pocus mumbo jumbo.
But I do think it will be fun.
So let's go just for kicks.
So it means that you're doing something not seriously.
You're just doing it for fun.
So you can do anything just for kicks really.
Maybe like if you just sit down and start doing some math problems just for kicks.
Yeah you would do that wouldn't you Marco?
Or I'm going to take a singing class just for kicks even though I don't take singing
very seriously.
It's not like you want to become a professional singer.
You just want to do it for fun.
Why don't we review everything one last time.
So speaking about superstitions as you said some superstitions are more local.
Like for example I think it's Americans that believe it's bad luck to open an umbrella
inside a house.
I know that for example in China it's the number four is considered bad luck.
So you'll see that many buildings don't have a floor number four or 14.
And actually it's similar in Western cultures because some hotels will not have a floor
Are there any superstitions that are from Ecuador?
I think Hispanic.
There is one that's very particular with women with Hispanic women.
They will not put their bags, their purses on the floor.
I've heard this before.
Your money will fly away.
Your money will fall out or your money will go away.
So women will not put their bags or their purses on the floor.
That's why you will always put it on a chair or on the table.
Never never on the floor.
They're very superstitious about this.
Well have you ever had your fortune told by a psychic?
I've never.
I've seen gypsies.
So gypsies are people that don't really live somewhere.
They don't settle anywhere.
They move around.
They go from city to city.
And I've seen them and they've approached me asking me if I want my fortune read.
But I don't really believe in that.
So it just seems like they wanted me to give them $5 and they would just tell me anything.
You think it was mumbo jumbo?
I think it was mumbo jumbo.
Have you had your fortune read?
I've had tarot cards read for me.
To be honest I don't really remember what my fortune was.
I don't remember if it was right or not right.
But I do remember feeling very uncomfortable because the things that my... and I don't
believe in these things because I'm not superstitious.
But the things that the fortune teller told me I thought were interesting because they
were very similar to things that I knew about myself.
So I don't know.
Some people... it's interesting because some people will go to a fortune teller just for
kicks and will actually agree or find it amazing what the fortune teller told them.
And other people aren't really just not really interested.
But it's very, very... it's very closely related to different cultures.
Some people have witch doctors that also will cleanse you or tell you your future and stuff
So we're actually very curious to hear about your culture.
Do you have superstitions in your culture and are there traditional forms of fortune
telling?
Let us know, our website is EnglishPod.com.
My name is Catherine and today we're talking a little bit about more small talk.
We're going to continue our series.
This is part nine, so we're coming close to the end of our 10-part series.
And today we're following Melissa and Michelle as they discuss very casually their personal
life specifically about their marriages or getting married.
So this one's a little bit more difficult than the last few.
Let's take a listen to the dialogue and when we come back we'll be talking about some of
those phrases that you heard.
Jump in quick.
It's pouring out there.
Oh, hi, Melissa.
Are you going to the conference too?
I was planning to pick up Mr. Campbell.
Yes, he told me.
We need to pick him up at his hotel and then go to the conference.
So I heard you got married.
We were going to get married next year, but then we decided to get married on holiday
instead.
It was wonderful.
That sounds so romantic.
Jack and I were hoping to get married in Europe next year, but we had to postpone our plans.
We just don't have the money.
I know what you mean.
I think Shanghai is getting more and more expensive.
I sure do.
In my opinion, it's actually becoming more expensive than back home.
Oh, there's Mr. Campbell.
Driver, can you stop here, please?
So a lot of interesting phrases in this dialogue more than vocab.
So we're going to have two fluency builders.
Let's start with the first one now.
The first phrase in today's fluency builder is the phrase jump in.
So Melissa says, hey, Michelle, jump in quick.
So Melissa is actually in a taxi and that's why she's saying jump in quick.
So she is directing Michelle to do something.
She's saying jump in.
So it's actually her telling Melissa, get in the car.
And so we can use this phrase to jump in somewhere, which means you're going to do it very quickly.
Yeah, to go somewhere, to get in a place very quickly.
We could say it about a cab, but we could also say it about a swimming pool.
Maybe I'm swimming in the water and I say, Marco, jump in.
The water's nice.
Or maybe you just got back from the gym and you're going to jump in the shower really
quick and before you go out again.
You're not actually going to jump like you jump the action, but you're going to get into
the shower very quickly.
And of course, Melissa tells Michelle to jump in the cab quickly because it's pouring out
It's pouring.
What's pouring?
The rain.
Pouring water, pouring wine.
It's actually, yeah, it's pouring water out there.
It means it's raining very, very hard.
Okay, so it's not just drizzling a little, little bit.
It's raining very hard.
It's pouring rain.
Okay, so we don't have to say the word rain.
We can just say it's pouring.
As you can see in that sentence, Melissa doesn't say at any time it's raining, but we understand
that when somebody says it's pouring out there, you know that it means it's raining very hard.
Can't be chocolate.
Can't be chocolate, can't be dogs or cats, right?
All right, so Michelle gets in the cab and she says, well, we have to pick up Mr. Campbell.
And Melissa says, yep, we need to pick him up at the hotel.
All right, the verb here is to pick up.
Now we want to just remember this as a phrasal verb.
You pick someone up in your car, you could even pick someone up on your bicycle.
So, but you can see that you can say we need to pick up Tommy at the hotel or you can say
we need to pick Tommy up.
So you can use it both ways.
You can put the noun in between or after.
So can you pick me up at five?
Or can you pick up the clothes at the dry cleaners?
It means to go collect something.
So you can use it in different ways.
You can put the noun in between pick up or you can put it after.
And all right, so they're going to go pick up Mr. Campbell.
Now they're talking, well, they're kind of gossiping a little bit.
They said, well, I heard you got married.
All right, so I heard.
Now this is a very, very common way to start a sentence that might have some gossip in
So I'm going to say something that might or might not be true.
So you're not really sure if it's true or not.
So this is why you start with the sentence, I heard that something, something, something.
So in this case, you said, I heard you got married.
Or I heard you got married because I'm basically saying, well, some rumor made it to me and
I heard that you got married, but I'm not sure.
So she's asking, did you get married?
If so, congratulations.
So it's a very common way of starting a sentence when you are talking to someone and maybe
you want them to confirm this news or this gossip or this rumor is true or not.
I heard you got a promotion.
So that's the way that you use this phrase.
I heard you or well, if you're using another person, I heard that Tom got divorced.
I heard Susie had a baby.
So that's all for the first part of Fluency Builder.
Let's take a break and we'll be back in a bit with part two.
Hey Michelle, jumping quick.
Oh, hi Melissa.
Actually, we need to pick him up at his hotel and then go to the conference.
So now we're back with part two of Fluency Builder.
Let's get started with the first phrase.
When she says that they got married on holiday, what does that mean?
On holiday is another way of saying on vacation.
So while we were having a holiday somewhere, this happened.
So you could say, we decided to get married on holiday.
That means when they were traveling, when they were on vacation, they got married.
So it's kind of more of a British way of saying, right?
On holiday?
You could say, where did you go on holiday?
But maybe in America, we'd prefer to say, where did you go on vacation?
On vacation.
So both are correct.
You can say, we got married while on holiday or we got married while on vacation.
Both are correct.
It's just a little bit of difference between British English and American English.
And then moving on, she said, well, they also wanted to get married, Michelle did, but they
had to postpone their wedding.
To postpone something means to wait until later to do it.
So you maybe want to do it today, but it's raining today.
So you have to postpone until next week.
So it's kind of like you had to delay, you had to wait.
So you could say that because of bad weather, the picnic will be postponed until next month.
So that's the way they use postpone.
Now it's interesting because you have a P in between there, so it's postpone.
Yeah, it's an interesting word to pronounce.
And well, they also had to postpone it because of money.
It's just very expensive.
And Melissa agrees by saying, I know what you mean.
Now this is a really common phrase and this is something you'll hear with more relaxed
conversations between friends.
It means I understand the situation or I feel the same way.
So in this case, we just don't have the money.
Melissa's saying, I know what you mean.
It means I'm having a hard time with money too.
I don't have much money either.
So you understand what she's talking about.
You also agree.
It's just a way of agreeing with someone.
And then she goes on to confirm what Michelle is saying by saying, I think Shanghai is getting
more and more expensive.
Now this is a really, really key sentence structure here.
We have more and more, more and more.
And then after that we have an adjective.
So the structure is more and more adjectives.
So more and more spicy, more and more funny, more and more expensive.
So in this case, the city is more expensive than it was before.
And it's still getting more expensive.
That's the main idea when you use this structure is that when you say more and more and then
you add an adjective such as expensive or beautiful, it means that it continues to grow.
It continues to get more expensive or more beautiful or more difficult.
But remember that we are using adjectives here that are when you're using the comparative,
you can't say, for example, you can't use funny.
You can't say you are getting more and more funny because obviously the comparative for
funny is funnier.
So just be careful with that one because it could be a little bit confusing.
So and to finish off our fluency builder, we have Michelle who agrees with Melissa and
says, yeah, you know, I think Shanghai is getting more expensive.
And she says, I sure do.
So she's basically agreeing.
She's saying, yes, that's true.
But why?
Why does she say I sure do?
Why doesn't she say agree?
I agree or yeah, you're right.
Well, she doesn't have to say it because she says I do.
The question before that was, I think something, something, don't you?
And she says, I do.
And I think that.
So it's assumed that she also thinks this.
She's answering a question.
So that's an interesting way of asking a question when you say, I think the city is beautiful.
So the proper way to answer that would be I do or I sure do.
So that's all the time we have for fluency builder.
Hey, Michelle, jumping quick.
Yes, he told me we need to pick him up at his hotel and then go to the conference.
OK, so I heard you got married.
All right, so we're reaching the end of our small talk series.
In this case, it's two women who are talking about their personal lives.
And not only that, they're talking about weddings and they're talking about money.
So this is a very interesting way to talk about these very common topics, personal life,
love and especially money.
But remember, in American culture, these are the kinds of things you would only talk to
your friends about.
You wouldn't really want to talk to strangers about money, personal life, marriage, because
those are considered private.
So be careful when you're talking to people you don't know very well.
And actually, your feedback was very interesting when we discussed about if it's okay to ask,
for example, a woman her age or her weight or a man's salary.
So in most places, you said that it wasn't really correct.
But this is the very interesting thing about the cultural differences and what is appropriate
to talk about.
So again, if you have any questions or comments about the things we talked about here today
or any of our older lessons about small talk, please just let us know.
And thanks for watching Polish English.
My name is Catherine and today we're going to be helping you set up an answering machine
So somebody's calling you, you can't answer the phone so you leave a message and we're
going to teach you all about that today.
So let's take a listen to our dialogue and we'll be back in a moment to figure out just
Can you help me set up my voicemail message?
I just got this service and I'm not really sure what I'm supposed to say.
You just basically got to let the caller know who they called and ask them for their contact
information so you can call them back.
So I can say, this is Abby's voicemail.
I will call you later.
So leave me your name and number.
That's more or less the idea, but try something that sounds more friendly.
So how about this?
This is Abby and I'm really happy you called.
I promise I will give you a ring as soon as I can.
So please leave me your name and number.
Talk to you soon.
A little too friendly, Abby.
Just say this.
Hi, you've reached Abby.
I'm unable to answer your call right now, but if you leave me your name and phone number,
I will get back to you as soon as possible.
That's perfect.
Can you say that again and record it for me?
So now let's take a look at some language takeaway.
In the first sentence, we are asking someone to help me set up my voicemail message.
So we got two key words there.
So let's break it up.
The first one is a phrasal verb, to set up.
You can set a lot of things up, but just remember that set and up, these are the two words that
go together.
In this case, we're setting up voicemail.
It means to establish or to start or to put together.
Yeah, to install.
Like for example, you get a new computer and you have to connect all the cables and you
have to connect the monitor.
So you say, can you help me set up my computer?
So he always helps me set it up.
So my computer, for example.
And what we're setting up is our voicemail message.
So what exactly is voicemail?
Well you know what mail is.
We have email and regular mail.
Voicemail is the kind of message you receive on your phone, your cell phone or your home
phone when you don't answer the phone.
So basically a way for people to leave you a message even though you can't answer them.
So this is something that's, it's not text, it's actually a voice.
So that's why it's called voicemail and you have to set it up.
So there's, there's no automatic voicemail message.
You actually have to make your own or you can choose one.
And today we're making our own.
And so we're explaining that we actually just got this service and we don't really know
what we're supposed to say or how to set up our voicemail.
So voicemail messages are a kind of service.
And now who would offer this kind of service, Marco?
Probably your telephone company.
So a telephone company will offer many different services and these are things that you can
pay extra for and they're useful.
They can help you in some way.
So another kind of service is three-way calling.
So actually we're taking a look at this word service as a noun.
So we have a service or this service.
So the company offers this service.
And well, why are we setting up the voicemail?
And our friend explains that we just basically doing it to let the caller know who they called.
So if I call a number and it says, Hey, leave a message.
I don't know who I'm leaving a message for.
Did I dial the wrong number?
What do I say?
Do I say my phone number?
So this is basically instructions for what to say.
And you become the caller.
So whoever is making the call is called the caller.
And this is why we are setting up our voicemail to let the caller know who we are calling.
And of course we have to ask the caller for their contact information.
Now this is important because it's not just something you have with voicemail messages.
You have contact information for many different things.
For example, your medical care, your school, you have to include contact information.
Now this would be your phone number, your address and or your email.
So your contact information is not only useful for in a voicemail message, but for example,
in a business meeting or a business lunch, you want to get maybe someone else's contact
information so you can call them later.
So don't forget, it's also your name as well.
So I forgot to mention that.
Contact information must have your name.
So that's pretty much all we have for the first part of language takeaway.
I just got the service and I'm not really sure what I'm supposed to say.
All right, here we are in Fluency Builder and the first phrase we've got is, how about
this?
So we're saying, we've got an example for you.
How about this?
Then the example.
So we've talked about how about many times already.
So for example, how about we go to the movies or how not to say how about your weekend because
that's completely wrong.
In this occasion, we're talking about how about this and this is like setting it up
for an example.
So for another example, we could say, so Marco, I'm trying to figure out how to say hello
when I answer the phone because I don't like the way I say it now.
I can say, how about this?
Is that good?
That's too strong.
So basically I'm setting up an example.
I'm saying, okay, keep listening.
I will give you an example.
Just imagine that you're trying on different clothes and someone is giving you their opinion.
So maybe you try on a black shirt and you say, how about this one?
Eh, boring.
And then you try on a green one and you say, now how about this?
Better.
So then you're giving them other options and examples and this is why we say, how about
And then we give the example like Abby did.
And you're also asking for a response.
You're asking for an opinion.
And so what Abby's saying is, I promise I will give you a ring as soon as I can.
Now this phrase, give you a ring is very British English, but it's also something you should
know if you want to be in America because you'll hear it in TV and stuff.
It's actually a colloquial term for saying, I will call you.
I will call you.
I will call you back or I will give you a call.
So the telephone rings.
That's the verb that goes with the phone, right?
Ring ring.
So I will give you a ring means I will call you just like you just said, Marco.
So remember this phrase.
It's actually, it may seem a little bit confusing, but remember it has to do with calling someone.
I will give you a ring is I will call you.
Or if you say, hey, give me a ring later on this afternoon.
It's call me later this afternoon.
And then moving towards the end of the dialogue, Abby says, hi, you have reached Abby.
This is weird because she is Abby, but she's saying you have reached Abby, right?
You're speaking about yourself in the third person.
So this is a message.
So you're telling people what to do.
Like I said, they're instructions.
And so this is basically the first thing you say, you have reached Catherine.
That means the number you dialed is Catherine's phone number, right?
So you reached, that means that you've contacted.
So as you said, it's important if you ever call a bank or in, or any type of company,
it will say you have reached a Wells Fargo bank or something, and it'll give you, it'll
tell you what number you called because maybe you put in your finger wrong and you just
called the wrong number.
Or you could use the word reached in a different way.
For example, yesterday I was very angry at Marco because I couldn't reach him by phone.
I called and called and called and couldn't reach him.
And I realized then his phone is broken.
So actually this verb to reach someone also has to do with, with, in general with calling.
I was trying to reach you all afternoon, but I couldn't get a hold of you.
And I was so frustrated.
Well, actually, if I had voicemail, I would continue by saying, I am unable to answer
your call right now because maybe my phone is off.
Maybe I am busy.
So we say, I am unable to answer your call right now.
Now this seems really long.
It's a little bit strange, but this is basically the standard for how to record a message.
I'm unable to answer your call right now.
So you answer the phone, right?
Or you answer a phone call.
But in this case, I'm unable to, that means I can't talk to you for whatever reason.
I'm out of the house.
I'm busy.
So I'm unable to answer your call right now.
Just remember that that means I can't talk to you right now.
I can't be on the phone.
And actually this word unable sounds a lot more polite and a lot more formal than saying
And that's why we use it on messages like this because it is so polite and so nice.
So that's all the time we have for Fluency Builder.
Let's take a listen to our dialogue one last time.
I just got this service.
And I'm not really sure what I'm supposed to say.
That's more or less the idea.
But try something that sounds more friendly.
But if you leave me your name and phone number, I will get back to you as soon as possible.
So talking about voicemail, I think in the United States, this is a very, very popular
and almost necessary service.
So in America, if you buy a phone plan, which most people have, that means that you can
use your phone in a certain way.
Like every day you have free nights or you have a thousand minutes per month to talk.
But you sometimes also get these services or you pay extra for them.
And voicemail is very important because people don't text as much in America as they do in
other countries.
So I know in other places, sometimes you text a message to someone and they receive it and
okay, it's a message.
But if you don't do that, you actually have to record a message.
Like when I call my parents, they never answer the phone.
So I always have to leave a voicemail message.
So I say, hi, it's Catherine.
It's Saturday.
Call me.
So that's that kind of, I think, cultural behavior that we just expect to leave messages
for people in America.
And it's actually interesting because I've been to other countries where they also have
voicemail messages and the service, but people are not as willing to actually leave the message.
So it happened to me.
For example, I call someone, I get their voicemail and I don't leave a message.
I just hang up.
And then they have...
You're bored or you're uncomfortable?
Because, you know, if you have a mobile phone, it'll show up anyways that you have a missed
call from this person.
So then I really just, I don't really leave the message anymore.
It's like, okay, you saw that I called you.
Either I'll just call you back later or you'll call me back when you see the missed call.
But yeah, for homes, obviously it's different.
You need to leave a message if you call someone.
Although sometimes it can be a bad thing.
I definitely have a friend who loves to leave long messages.
Hey, Catherine, it's me.
So it's like Saturday at four o'clock and I was just thinking about calling and I was
going to come over but I decided not to come over.
But then I was thinking maybe I'll just call you instead and I can see that you're not
home, but maybe you're out to dinner.
I remember you saying...
And they just go on and on and on.
You actually, there is an end.
They'll go beep and then it cuts you off.
I think it's like 30 seconds or something like this.
So it's very interesting, this whole voicemail thing, especially in the business world as
Many times people go into a meeting, turn off their phones or put it on silent.
And if you want to reach them or you want to leave a message, you've got to do the voicemail.
Yeah, calls will go right to voicemail so that you don't interrupt the meeting.
We more than welcome your questions, your comments, any suggestions.
You can find us there, EnglishPod.com.
Hello everyone and welcome to English Odd.
My name is Catherine and today we're talking about the human body, right Marco?
Today we are going to take a look at very specific vocabulary words related to your
body, what's inside your body.
So let's just jump right into this dialogue.
Let's listen to this anatomy class.
Okay class, so today we're going to continue with our anatomy class.
Today we will review everything we have learned.
Can anyone tell me what the first major organ is?
The brain.
That's right, the brain.
It serves as a control center for the body, handling the processes of the central nervous
system as well as cognition.
Then what major organ is in our chest?
The heart.
It pumps blood throughout the body using the circulatory system such as blood vessels and
veins.
Now let's not forget that our lungs provide oxygen to our heart and body to keep us alive.
Now what about the organs that help us digest food?
The stomach and intestines.
Let's not forget that the stomach is the one that breaks down our food and our intestines
process the food and then expel the waste.
Are we forgetting anything?
Yeah, our kidneys, liver and bladder.
Oh yes, you are right.
Very important organs indeed.
So what do these organs do, teacher?
Well, they…
Time for a break.
We can talk about it when you get back.
So now let's take a look at some vocab on Language Takeaway.
So the first word we have today is anatomy.
We've heard this already.
This is the study of the body, right?
So maybe in high school you took an anatomy class.
You studied the bodies maybe of animals, for example.
But if we're talking about human beings, we would call it human anatomy and we would study
the things like your organs, your bones, all the things that make up your body.
We're talking about our body organs.
Now this is important.
Where are these located, Marco?
Inside or outside?
Inside the body.
So the body has many different organs and we learned all about these in today's dialogue.
But an organ is basically a part.
A part of your body.
But it has a special function or many functions.
So for example, we talked about the heart.
We all know what the heart is and it's one of our main organs that pumps blood through
our body.
And so some of these organs have to do with processing food.
Some have to do with blood.
But there's also an interesting system that we heard about called the central nervous
And this is very closely related to the brain.
So basically the nervous system is in charge of all the things that you feel in your body.
So you feel through what are called nerves and the central nervous system is actually
a system that connects all these things together and then connects it to the brain.
So think of a system as being comprised of many different parts, not just one nerve.
So we're talking about, for example, your skin is part of the nervous system, your eyes,
what you see, and all this gets fed into the brain and it processes it.
And that's what basically the nervous system is all about.
And the brain is also important for other things.
We heard about this noun cognition.
The doctor said, yeah, the teacher said that cognition was one of the other things that
the brain helped us with.
So what exactly is cognition?
Cognition is the ability to think.
So humans have cognition.
That means we have brains and our brains allow us to think and even talk and write music
and things like that.
But for example, a rock does not have cognition.
A plant would not have cognition either because they don't have this special organ, the brain
that allows them to think.
So it's a noun, right?
You're saying that we have cognition because we have brains.
You have it.
So those are the four words that we're going to take a look at to introduce the lesson.
Why don't we move on now to more specific vocab?
Let's take a look at some of the main organs that we discussed in this dialogue on Language
Okay, class.
So today we're going to continue with our anatomy class.
Now, let's not forget that our lungs provide oxygen to our heart and body to keep us alive.
Our kidneys, liver, and bladder.
You are right.
Well, they...
So we're moving down the body.
We had the brain and we mentioned the stomach.
We had the brain and then the heart, of course, which pumps blood like you say, Marco.
But the next item, the next organ is the stomach.
So we get to the stomach and the intestines, which are very closely bound together.
So what does the stomach do first?
First of all, when you eat food, the food is sent to your stomach where your stomach
breaks it down and decides what parts to keep and what parts to save, right?
And the interesting thing is that in our stomachs, we have what we call acid.
So these acids break down those foods because it all gets mixed together in there and your
body has to determine what exactly you've been eating.
So after the stomach breaks things down, it goes through the intestines and also the intestines
are very important and they're very long, but they're all wound up inside our stomach.
And they kind of look like a lot of S's because they're all coiled up inside of us and they're
indeed quite long.
But the intestines are also very, very important because they're actually what the waste or
the parts of food that our bodies don't need, so they travel through to get out of our systems.
So actually the intestines will absorb part of the proteins and the vitamins and everything
that we need.
And at the same time, they will also act as little tunnels that will transport the waste,
the things that we don't need to have inside our body to later be able to digest.
So the stomach and the intestines, those have to do with the way that we eat, process and
dispose of food.
But now we have the kidneys.
So people have two kidneys, right?
People have two kidneys and actually you can continue living with just one kidney, right?
They're kind of shaped like a C almost.
In fact, we have something called a kidney bean in English, which is a red bean and it
looks just like a kidney.
And well, what do the kidneys do?
The kidneys from what I understand basically clean your blood.
So there's lots of things in your system, in your body, especially from the things that
you eat and maybe the chemicals that you're exposed to.
And we need our kidneys, or at least the one kidney to clean our blood and to make sure
our blood is what it's supposed to be.
And in fact, when the kidneys aren't working properly, it's very, very serious and we call
this kidney failure, right?
So when you're watching a TV show about doctors, maybe you say, oh, he's gone into kidney failure.
It's a big deal, very big problem.
So this is what our kidneys do, a very important part of our bodies, obviously.
And well, as you said, they act as filters, but near the kidneys, we also have the liver.
And the liver is actually for some people, a delicious food, not human liver, but animal
liver.
But in humans, we also have this organ, right?
And it's also closely related to people who have drinking problems.
They have bad livers.
And why is that?
I think it has to do a little bit with what the liver does.
It does many different things, but alcohol, I think harms your liver, makes it weaker.
And the liver is important because it helps to generate hormones, but it also helps us
process chemicals in our body.
So this is really important.
Actually, why the liver is so important is because it does so much.
And well, we only got one of them, so we can't really live without it, right?
So the liver is a very important thing.
And actually, many people now have gone through liver transplants.
That means that their liver stops working, so they receive the liver of another person.
So you might hear that as well on TV.
And the last organ that we took a look at here is the bladder, which is also very important,
goes hand in hand with the kidneys.
So the bladder, you might hear someone say, I have a bad bladder.
That means that I often have to use the bathroom to go urinate.
Now the bladder is where liquids and also some kinds of chemicals in our bodies that
we get from the food that we eat are kept until we dispose of them.
So actually when your bladder is full, because it gets full of liquid or urine, that's when
you have to go to the bathroom.
And so pregnant women often have weaker bladders.
They feel pressure on the bladder, so it hurts and that doesn't hurt.
It pushes down the bladder.
The baby does.
So they often have to pee very often, unlike people who are not pregnant.
Very, very interesting.
And actually, some people say that, you know, I have a small bladder and that's why they
go to the bathroom all the time, more often than others.
Now why don't we take a look at our dialogue for the last time and we'll be back in a bit
Okay class.
The brain is the control center for the body, handling the processes of the central nervous
system, as well as cognition.
It pumps blood throughout the body using the circulatory system, such as blood vessels
and veins.
Our kidneys, liver and bladder.
So you mentioned that actually some people get liver transplants.
So out of all these organs, we could also have a kidney transplant, right?
You can donate your kidneys.
So obviously you can't have any kidney.
You actually have to have a match, someone who is the right type.
But oftentimes they do perform these surgeries with the kidney transplant or a liver transplant.
Now what about a heart transplant?
I believe they've done tests of heart transplants and they've done a few successful ones.
Sometimes they use pieces of cow or pig hearts because they have very similar genetic makeups
to human beings.
So they can use little pieces like valves.
But I really don't know.
I don't think they're as common as liver or kidney.
And actually these organs, we don't really pay too much attention to them, but they're
so very delicate and they do so many things that actually once you only begin having some
problems with them, that's when you realize how important they are.
So it's really important to understand a little bit about how they work and also how to take
care of them.
Because obviously if you're having liver problems, you should stop drinking so much that there
are some things that you can do to help protect yourself.
And one that we didn't mention is actually the biggest organ that they talk about is
the skin.
The skin is a big organ.
Also the lungs we didn't mention.
Yes, the lungs.
The lungs help us breathe.
But the skin is one of the largest parts of our body.
Yes, I didn't really know that.
I didn't realize that.
I wasn't very good at anatomy or biology.
I wasn't really into it much.
But I didn't realize that the skin is actually an organ just like the heart, the lungs, everything.
I hadn't thought about that.
It's maybe because I feel so comfortable in it.
I just get to see it every day.
Yes, and it's alive.
It actually breathes.
We're changing skin all the time.
So a very medical related topic but very interesting as well because we didn't touch so many other
parts of the body.
For example, bones.
There are so many names of the different bones.
And your tongue and your teeth and your eyes, all these different pieces and parts.
So definitely more stuff that we could talk about next time.
But for now we hope that you've learned something.
If you have questions or comments, as always, you can come to our website englishpod.com
and let us know.
My name is Catherine and today we're talking a little bit about small talk.
We are getting towards the end of our series.
Actually this is the last podcast that we will have all about small talk and we're just
going to be following Mr. Campbell and Michelle and Melissa and they're just going to talk
very briefly about the weather, about traveling, very casual things.
So let's take a listen to this dialogue and we'll be back in a moment to discuss what's
Hi ladies.
Thanks for picking me up.
It's awful weather out there.
It's been raining for hours.
How are you Melissa?
I'm great thanks Mr. Campbell.
Do you have any business trips plans in Mr. Campbell?
I'm always traveling.
I'm leaving for London next Monday and then I'll fly to Boston from there.
It's going to be a busy month.
How about you Michelle?
Do you have any vacation plans?
Mike and I will travel to Beijing to see my ex-parents for the spring festival and hopefully
next year we will visit London.
I hear it's a wonderful city.
I couldn't agree more.
London is really fantastic.
It's my favorite city.
I'm sure you'll have a great time.
We don't have that much today in language takeaway but we do have a couple of really
important words and phrases.
The first one comes from the very first line.
Mr. Campbell says, hi ladies.
Now this phrasal verb, to pick someone up, means to get them, right?
Yeah, to gather them, to collect them.
You can do this with a car like I will pick you up at the airport.
But you can also do it in person by just walking to a place and meeting somebody and then taking
them somewhere else.
That's the important part.
You take them somewhere else.
So maybe if you go pick your kids up from school, you just walk there, you get them
and you walk back home.
And so the key here is that you remember that the verb goes first, I will pick and then
you have the person.
I will pick you up.
I will pick them up.
He will pick us up.
So the subject goes between pick and up.
So we're going to pick someone up.
And then Mr. Campbell comments on the weather.
He says it's awful weather out there.
It's awful.
So awful, you listen to the tone, you automatically think that this is probably a bad thing.
And you're right, it is a bad thing.
But what's another way to say awful?
It's horrible.
So awful is a way to say something's really bad.
And we use it very often with the weather.
This weather is awful.
But we can also use it about other things like food, for example.
So if you have something to eat and it doesn't taste good, you can say this is awful.
Or what's that awful smell?
Oh, Marco took his shoes off.
Right, an awful smell.
And well, Mr. Campbell went on to tell them that he's taking another trip soon, but a
specific kind of trip.
So you know that there are many different kinds of trips, but the one that he's taking
is a business trip.
So normally we could just say I'm going on a trip next year.
But here we specify, we say it's a business trip.
So what are we doing on this trip, Marco?
So we're basically working.
We're going because our company needs us to go to a meeting or to do some work abroad.
So you know on a business trip that you'll be doing work things, you'll be having meetings,
you will not be going to Disney World, you will not be meeting with friends and going
to movies probably.
So it's very different from a vacation.
A vacation you go with the objective of going to these fun places.
So can I say I'm going on a business vacation?
No, you're either going on vacation or you're taking a business trip.
All right, business trip.
So now let's take a break and let's review our dialogue.
Hi, ladies.
How are you, Melissa?
I'm great, thanks, Mr. Campbell.
Do you have any business trips plans in, Mr. Campbell?
Of course, I'm always traveling.
I'll leave for London next Monday and then I'll fly to Boston from there.
How about you, Michelle?
Yes, Mike and I will travel to Beijing to see Mike's parents for the spring festival
and hopefully next year we will visit London.
All right, so now let's take a look at four key phrases on Fluency Builder.
All right, now we have a great phrase for everybody here in Fluency Builder.
Melissa is talking to Mr. Campbell and he asks her how she is.
And she says, I'm great, thanks.
Now Marco, why would we use this phrase instead of I'm fine, thank you?
Well, it's basically the same thing.
It's just another way of answering this common question, how are you?
You can say I'm fine, thank you.
I'm well.
But this is just another way of saying I'm okay.
All right, but I think it's important too to remember that this is also very casual
like the rest of the conversation and pretty enthusiastic.
So, it's important to remember that I'm fine, thanks is standard, it's very normal, but
I'm great is a nice way to change it and do something different.
And now we wanted to ask if we have any plans, but we wanted to know if we have any vacation
plans.
And the interesting thing about this question was that Mr. Campbell said, any vacation plans?
So that's the whole sentence.
Well, first he says, how about you, Michelle?
Any vacation plans?
So what we think here is that maybe it's wrong.
Do you have any vacation plans is something that we'd want to hear, right?
But here we don't actually need to say, do you have any vacation plans?
Because it's pretty clear who we're talking to.
We're talking to Michelle, right?
And we're talking about traveling and we're talking about plans.
So it's overstated that we don't really need to say, do you have any vacation plans?
We're already talking about the subject.
Now, this is a great way to transition.
One person is talking about himself or herself and then you want to talk about the other
So you say, what about you?
Any vacation plans or any dinner plans or any ideas?
So it's a great way to, like you say, transition from one idea or from one person to another.
Now to the next phrase, a very common one, and specifically when you are not really sure
about something, but somebody told you.
Specifically in this case, Michelle says, I hear it's a wonderful city when talking
about London.
So what does she mean by I hear it's a wonderful city?
Well basically Michelle is saying she's never been to London, but she's read or she's heard
from friends or from a TV show that London's a wonderful city.
So she can't say it is a wonderful city because she's never been there, but she can say, listen,
you know, I have, I have heard this from other people or from magazines.
So it's not even clear where she heard it, but that's not really important.
So basically the idea is that we don't know personally, but we have friends that told
us or we have read in a magazine or a TV show, we've seen it, that it's great.
So you can use it with many things like a restaurant.
I hear the food is delicious.
Or I could say, hey Marco, I'm going to Hong Kong Disneyland next year.
And I can say, oh, I hear that it's a very fun place.
So Marco, you've never been there, right?
No, I've never been there.
And to finish off, Mr. Campbell agrees completely about London being such a wonderful city.
And he says, I couldn't agree more.
So he agrees.
We understand that.
But I couldn't agree more is like saying, I really, really agree.
Like you are completely right.
So this is a way to exaggerate.
You know, you want to say, I agree.
Eh, it's a little boring.
So you say, I couldn't agree more.
I'm agreeing the most I can.
And then we can also use the opposite, which would be if you disagree with someone.
I couldn't disagree more.
So you just change that one word.
So maybe I don't like London.
Maybe it's too rainy or too dark for me.
So I say, I couldn't disagree more.
I think London is terrible.
Maybe not the right thing to say in a small talk situation, but we can talk about that
So let's review everything one last time.
Thanks, Mr. Campbell.
I'm leaving for London next Monday, and then I'll fly to Boston from there.
Mike and I will travel to Beijing to see Mike's parents for the spring festival, and hopefully
So this is our last podcast all about small talk.
And I hope it's been useful.
We've gotten some great feedback about the different topics and small conversations you
can have with a stranger, a co-worker, a friend, to kind of not have that awkward silence.
We've gone over a lot of different situations.
We've had situations with strangers, situations with work friends.
But I think what's really important is that in all of these situations, we're very polite.
We say nice things.
There are these transitions like I hear or I couldn't agree more.
These are wonderful ways of really being nice to the person you're talking to.
And we're going to come out with a new series soon.
So we would really like your feedback.
Any topics or any specific subject you want us to talk, you can let us know at EnglishPod.com.
And also your questions and comments can be left there.
So please get in touch with us, EnglishPod.com.
My name is Catherine and we're going to have some fun today, Marco, right?
That's right. Today we are taking a small kid and we're going to the park and we're going to play.
Okay, so there are fun things you can do at the park. We're going to learn all about them. Let's take a listen to our dialogue.
Hey, honey. Where were you?
I decided to take Kenny to the park and get some fresh air.
How was it? Were there a lot of kids?
It wasn't too crowded, but we had a great time. We got on the seesaw together, then went on a couple of different slides,
and then I tried to go with him in the jungle gym, but I didn't fit.
Sounds like fun. When we go, he always just likes to play in the sandbox.
Yeah, but today he was really hyper. He even got onto the monkey bars. And then he went on to go on the swings for half an hour. I'm exhausted.
You should go to the park more often since you don't go to the gym anymore.
All right, we're back. So now let's take a look at some of this great playground equipment on Language Takeaway.
So, as you said, Marco, today we're focusing in Language Takeaway on some of these things you can do at the park.
Now, the first one is one of my personal favorites from childhood called the seesaw.
The seesaw, that's right. And so basically it's that long piece of, well, sometimes metal or wood, and two people sit at each opposite end.
Yes, and so when one person goes down, the other person goes up. And when that person goes down, the other person goes up. So it's a seesaw.
That's right. So yes, it's actually a very common toy that you can play with at the playground.
But also another very common one I'm sure everyone knows and has been on is a slide.
A slide. Now this is a bit hard to describe actually. Slides are usually quite colorful.
But they're like tubes that are open and the child can go down. So you're on top, maybe two meters high, and then you go down the slide and you come down to the ground.
That's right. And actually it's the noun, a slide, but what you do is, the verb is you actually slide down the slide.
Yes, and sometimes you go very fast and it's scary.
That's right. And well, if you want to have something a little bit less scary, you can go into the jungle gym.
All right, jungle. Now the jungle is actually a place. In South America, for example, you have jungles with lots of trees and monkeys and everything.
But jungle gym is like many, many different metal bars or wood together to make this open structure that boys and girls can climb on.
So basically you start on the ground and you climb all the way up it.
Okay, so I think this is why it's called a kind of like a jungle gym, right? Because you can climb up and down and grab all these bars.
You can hang like a monkey from the bars.
Yeah, so basically it's just a cage that boys and girls can climb on and play with.
Right, and I guess you call it a jungle gym because when you're doing all this, you're doing exercise.
All right, so now maybe for the smaller kids who just want to play with some toys, they can just hang out at the sandbox.
All right, this is one word, but it's actually quite literal. You'd have sand in a box.
And a sandbox is very safe and very fun because boys and girls can make castles or dig, but there's nothing to it really. It's just a box.
It's just a box with sand, literally. Yes, that's right. So that's also fun for the smaller kids to be at the sandbox.
Now, going back to something very similar to the jungle gym, we have the monkey bars.
Okay, now monkey bars are a very important part of the park. These are horizontal bars, so they're across.
And you hang on them with your arms, so your body hangs down. And when you hang, your feet are off the ground.
It's very tall.
And you have to move. You have to change from one bar to the other. So it's like a ladder that you're pulling yourself across.
Yes, exactly. So you've probably seen it exactly how you describe it. It's a ladder, and you just got to hang on to the different bars with your arms.
It's actually quite difficult to do.
I always used to get upset because I couldn't go all the way across because you go from one end to the other end.
But my arms would get so tired that I had to drop down onto the ground.
Really? All right. Well, something that's a little bit less exhausting but also very fun are when you go on the swings.
All right. Swings are great. Now, swings are kind of like chairs, but they don't have a back.
So you sit down on a piece that's maybe plastic, and someone behind you will push you because you're on these hanging chairs.
And they'll push you, and you go forward and backward. And you can go very, very high, and then you come back down.
Exactly. So these are swings. All of this equipment you've most likely seen at any of the parks that are nearby.
But we're going to post some pictures as well so you can see more clearly what they're all about.
Now, let's go and review the dialogue again before we move on to Fluency Builder.
Yeah, but today he was really hyper. He even got under the monkey bars. And then he went on to go on the swings for half an hour. I'm exhausted.
All right. We're back. So now let's take a look at three phrases on Fluency Builder.
So our first phrase today is actually something that the parent is talking about. She wants to take Kenny to the park and get some fresh air.
Now, what does it mean to go get fresh air?
Well, basically, it means to go out and maybe walk or just be outside and get air from the outside.
Because sometimes you're in your house all the time, and that's not fresh air.
That's right. So basically, this means exactly what you're saying. It means going outside.
So kids often need to go get some fresh air, but also adults do, too.
Sometimes I feel like when I'm working in the office for a long time, I really need to get some fresh air.
So that means I go outside for a walk.
Exactly. And you can tell your friends, oh, excuse me for a minute. I'm going to go get some fresh air.
Or you know what? You're looking a little bit pale. Maybe you should go get some fresh air.
Exactly. And talking about all this great equipment and how much fun you can have, the wife said, wow, that sounds like fun.
Okay. So sounds like fun. It's not actually a sound.
This phrase is really important because we say it a lot, but it actually just means that it sounds like it will be a fun time.
Or I think it will be fun.
Yeah. So from what you're telling me, I think it's fun.
That's right. So we can say this about a lot of things. I could say, hey, Marco, we're going to go play some football after work. Do you want to come?
Sure. That sounds like fun.
All right. So he thinks it sounds like a good idea. He'll probably come, right?
Exactly. So if something sounds like fun. All right. And moving on to our last phrase,
we said that it was a great idea that we're going to the park and getting fresh air because we don't go to the gym anymore.
Okay. Now this is a really important phrase to keep as a phrase. First of all, we have a gym. What do you do at a gym, Marco?
Well, you work out.
Yeah. You exercise. Maybe you run on the treadmill or you lift weights.
But it's important to remember that the verb here is to go to the gym.
So I could say I go to the gym three times a week. How often do you go to the gym?
Okay. So that's the phrase. You go to the gym.
I stop going to the gym and I gain a little weight.
Okay. So that's the way you use it. You don't use any other verb when you're talking about the gym. You say you go to the gym.
I go to the gym. He goes to the gym regularly.
All right. Very good. So that's all the Fluency Builder for today. Let's review our dialogue one last time.
It wasn't too crowded, but we had a great time.
We got on the seesaw together, then went on a couple of different slides, and then I tried to go with him in the jungle gym, but I didn't fit.
Yeah, but today he was really hyper. He even got under the monkey bars.
And then he went on to go on the swings for half an hour. I'm exhausted.
All right. So growing up, there are many, many different games at parks that you can probably find, especially now you have such great playground equipment.
But I think these are the most basic ones that everyone knows about.
That's right. These are pretty standard things that you'll see at a playground.
Remember that a park doesn't have to have these things.
Parks are just public places, maybe with benches and trees.
But a playground is the part of the park where you'll see these kinds of things like a slide or swings.
And so it's important to remember that they're not the same.
Right. And now, did you ever have a bad accident or did you fall off the swing or the seesaw or maybe you fell off the slide?
Oh, I fell all the time.
Never a serious accident, but swings, I liked to swing.
And when I was forward, you know, up in the air, I used to let go and jump.
You would jump off the swing.
I would jump off the swing. So when you're very high in the air, it feels like you're flying for a minute.
My mother hated it because she thought I was going to break my arms.
But I loved it.
It's great fun. And actually, we would really like to know, maybe you have some pictures that you can share with us of some specific playground equipment that we may have missed.
There are a lot of things out there and maybe locally there are even some more fun things that we don't have.
So let us know what do playgrounds look like in your country.
We hope to see you at EnglishPod.com.
My name is Kathryn and it's the holiday season.
Today we have a lesson all about a special December holiday.
We are getting close to Christmas and of course today we are going to talk about Christmas
in the United States and some of the typical traditions that you see over there.
So we're going to be looking at a family as they wait for Christmas morning to arrive.
If you don't know what that is, don't worry, you'll hear us talk about it in a moment.
But first let's listen to our dialogue.
What are you doing awake?
I can't sleep.
But it's almost midnight.
I'm too excited for Christmas morning.
Also, I thought I heard Santa.
How do you know it was Santa?
Well, I heard that naughty boys and girls get coal in their stockings so I thought I'd
be nice and make Santa cookies.
I even left out some milk.
I heard someone in the kitchen eating the cookies so I came downstairs.
Well, I know that Santa won't come down the chimney with you hiding behind the tree spying
on him.
Let's go back upstairs and get back to bed.
That way we can let Santa do his job.
Then when you wake up, it will be Christmas already.
Hey, honey, is that you?
Don't eat all the cookies.
I want some too.
So now let's take a look at some language on Language Takeaway.
Okay, I just said it but here's that phrase again.
Christmas morning.
So Christmas morning is December 25th in the morning, right?
Okay, so the tradition is that small children will wake up early and run downstairs and
they will find Christmas presents under the Christmas tree.
And so this is the Christmas morning tradition.
Many countries, they celebrate Christmas on Christmas Eve, the 24th, right?
Alright, so Christmas Eve is December 24th, Christmas Day or if it's in the morning, Christmas
morning is December 25th.
And as you said, kids come downstairs or go to where the Christmas tree is to look for
their presents that Santa came and left for them.
So the idea, the story is that Santa comes at night, late at night and brings presents
for the children.
And when the children wake up, they see the presents but Santa has already gone.
So Santa is a man, he's kind of a mythical figure with a big white beard and a red outfit
and a red hat.
So his name is Santa Claus or just Santa.
There are many, many different names for Santa in different cultures and different countries.
Yeah, some people like to call him Saint Nick or Saint Nicholas but most people will call
him Santa in America.
So this is what happens or part of what happens during Christmas Eve and Christmas Day.
And usually also, boys and girls will find our stockings that will be filled with candy
or small toys as well.
Stockings are basically socks.
But these are special socks that you don't wear, you hang them and a lot of people like
to put them on the fireplace.
They hang them from the fireplace.
And like you said, Marco, they're filled with sweets.
The story says that boys and girls who are nice get good things like sweets and toys
and boys and girls who are naughty get coal.
Coal.
So that's that black material that we use to make a barbecue for example.
It's very dirty and it's not something you want in your stocking.
So that's what we get in our stockings.
And now when the small boy and his father were talking, they were saying that he should
go back to bed and not hide behind the tree.
So if they're in the living room or they're downstairs in the house, what tree do they
We're not talking about a big real tree outside.
We're talking about the Christmas tree.
But you know, it's a long phrase, the Christmas tree.
We don't have to say it that way.
When we have a Christmas tree inside the house, we can just call it the tree.
And the Christmas tree, as many of you may have seen already, is a pine tree usually
and you put decorations on it and the presents go under it.
So you might hear this phrase, there are presents under the tree or there are many nice presents
under the tree.
That means there are lots of nice presents under the Christmas tree.
And well, the kid wanted to stay behind the tree and spy on Santa Claus.
So this is a verb, to spy.
This means to watch someone but to watch them while they don't know that you're watching
So you're hiding but looking at someone else.
You're spying.
This is where the noun comes, a spy like James Bond.
James Bond spies.
He is a very famous spy.
But in this case, the boy does not want Santa Claus to see him so he is spying on Santa
Claus.
Very good stuff.
Let's listen to the dialogue again and review this vocab.
Well, I heard that naughty boys and girls get coal in their stockings.
So I thought I'd be nice and make Santa cookies.
So now let's take a look at three phrases on Fluency Builder.
So, Marco, there's another great phrase in here that we often use just around Christmas.
What is it that Santa Claus does?
Well, the way Santa Claus leaves presents for boys and girls is that he will come down
the chimney.
We saw that when the dad said, well, Santa Claus won't come down the chimney if you're
here hiding behind the tree.
So the chimney is part of the fireplace.
A fireplace is where you have a fire in your house to keep warm.
And the chimney is where the smoke goes to come outside.
But Santa Claus goes the other way.
He comes down the chimney from the roof into your house.
And then he leaves the presents.
So the father said, all right, so, you know, stop spying on Santa.
Get back to bed.
And this is a phrase that you're going to hear parents say a lot to their children.
So if the children are awake or walking around, you say, get back to bed.
That means go back to sleep.
Go back to sleep.
And we want the kid to go back to sleep so we can let Santa do his job.
Like that last phrase, this is a phrase that you can use in other ways.
It's not just for Christmas.
But we said, you know, let Santa do his job.
Let Santa leave his presents.
Let's not bother Santa.
But we can change Santa with any other name.
So you can say, I don't know, maybe your dad is working in the office and your mom will
tell you, you know, come out here.
Let dad do his job.
That means don't bother dad.
Don't distract him.
Let him work.
So that's the way that you use those phrases.
Very good stuff here.
Why don't we review one last time?
I heard someone in the kitchen eating the cookies.
So I came downstairs.
I want some, too.
So these Christmas traditions are, as we said, they're typically American, but many other
cultures share similar traditions like this.
Obviously, traditions are different in every family.
Not everyone celebrates Christmas morning.
Some people celebrate Christmas Eve.
But most people will be familiar with Christmas stockings, Christmas trees, and Santa who
comes down the chimney.
So it also depends, I guess, on the culture and religion.
Some religions celebrate Christmas differently or not at all.
So it's actually a very interesting time of the year.
But if you look or if you can see any American movies, like I remember this one called The
Santa Claus, you can see the typical American Christmas, snow and trees and presents and
Santa Claus, a lot of things.
So a good way to end this would be to say have a very Merry Christmas.
That means have a nice holiday.
Enjoy Christmas.
If you're not going to celebrate Christmas for whatever reason, you can just say happy
holidays.
Happy holidays.
And of course, you can go to our website, EnglishPod.com, where we want to know if you
celebrate Christmas or what are the Christmas traditions in your country.
We're very curious to hear those.
So we'll see you soon on EnglishPod.com.
We'll see you guys.
Until then peace love and Personality Letters.
My name is Catherine and a very Merry Christmas to everyone.
That's right, Merry Christmas. We are at that time again where we are celebrating Christmas,
we're having dinner with family and friends, we're giving presents and of course,
there are some other traditions that come into play like for example Santa Claus.
Santa Claus. So, we've got a very special advanced level lesson for you today.
We've got a poem. It's a very traditional poem that is read or listened to on the holiday
and we're going to talk a little bit about some of the interesting words and phrases that are used in this.
But first off, let's just listen to the poem itself.
It was the night before Christmas when all through the house, not a creature was stirring, not even a mouse.
The stockings were hung by the chimney with care in hopes that St. Nicholas soon would be there.
The children were nestled all snug in their beds while visions of sugar plums danced in their heads
and mysterious sounds of bells and bells were heard in the air.
and Mama in her kerchief and I in my cap had just settled down for a long winter's nap.
When out on the lawn there arose such a clatter, I sprang from the bed to see what was the matter.
Away to the window I flew like a flash, tore open the shutters and threw open the sash.
The snow and snow gave the luster of midday to objects below when what to my wondering eyes should appear
but a miniature sleigh, an eight tiny reindeer with a little old driver so lively and quick
I knew in a moment it must be St. Nick.
More rapid than eagles his coursers they came and he whistled and shouted and called them by name.
Now Dasher, now Dancer, now Prancer and Vixen, on Comet, on Cupid, on Donder and Blitzen,
to the top of the porch, to the top of the wall, now dash away, dash away, dash away all.
As dry leaves that before the wild hurricanes fly, when they meet with an obstacle, mount to the sky.
So up to the housetop the coursers they flew with the sleighs full of toys and St. Nicholas too.
And then in a twinkling I heard on the roof the prancing and pawing of each little hoof.
As I drew in my head and was turning around, down the chimney St. Nicholas came with a bound.
He was dressed all in fur from his head to his toe and his clothes were all tarnished with ashes and soot.
A bundle of toys he had flung on his back and he looked like a peddler just opening his pack.
His eyes, how they twinkled, his dimples, how merry.
His cheeks were like roses, his nose like a cherry.
His droll little mouth was drawn up in a bow and the beard of his chin was as white as the snow.
The stump of a pipe he held tight in his teeth and the smoke had encircled his head like a wreath.
He had a broad face and a little round belly that shook when he laughed like a bowl full of jelly.
He was chubby and plump, a right old jolly elf, and I laughed when I saw him in spite of myself.
A wink of his eye and a twist of his head soon gave me to know I had nothing to dread.
He spoke not a word but went straight to work and filled all the stockings then turned with a jerk.
And laying his finger aside of his nose and giving a nod, up the chimney he rose.
He sprang to his sleigh, to his team gave a whistle, and away they all flew like the down of a thistle.
But I heard him exclaim, ere as he drove out of sight,
Happy Christmas to all and to all a good night!
Alright, we're back. So, the poem is very nice. It's long.
And just to kind of recap what the poem is talking about, what is the general story of the poem?
The story of the poem is that Santa Claus is coming to visit someone's house.
And there's a person in the story who is watching Santa Claus arrive.
And he's seeing Santa Claus take the reindeer up onto the roof, come down the chimney,
and lay the presents out for the children, filling the stockings as well.
Okay, so it's basically a nice poetic description of Santa Claus.
And also, it goes in to describe in a very nice way the way Santa Claus looks like.
It's very descriptive. We have descriptions of what Santa Claus looks like, what he's wearing, his smile, how he's a little bit fat.
We also have descriptions of the animals, the special animals that we hear about so often that are called reindeer.
Alright, so we've divided up the poem by lines, so then it's going to be easier for you to go to the line that we're talking about.
Let's start with the first line, with this first word that's actually very interesting.
"'Twas the night before Christmas when all through the house."
So what does this first word mean?
"'Twas' is an abbreviation, so it's a shortened version of, it was.
Okay, so, but do you actually use this now if you're writing?
No, this is not something I would use now in writing, and it's not something I would say.
It's actually more of an archaic form, something that you might hear in poetry or historical writing.
Okay, so it was the night before Christmas, right? So we're talking about December 24th.
The night of December 24th, that's right.
Alright, so the first two lines talk about how it was the night before Christmas and in the house there was nothing stirring, not even a mouse.
So not even the smallest little animal, so it's very quiet in the house is what's happening.
So now we jump to line number seven, where the poet describes, "'And Mama in her kerchief and I in my cap.'"
So we know that the person talking is the dad, because he's talking about himself and Mama, mother.
They're in bed together.
"'And Mama in her kerchief and I in my cap.'" So I'm wearing a nightcap, a cover on my head, it's like a hat.
"'And Mama has a kerchief.'"
What's a kerchief?
A kerchief is another abbreviation, it's short for handkerchief.
And a handkerchief is a piece of fabric or cloth that sometimes we use for our noses when we have to blow our nose.
But also you can use a kerchief in your hair to cover your hair.
Okay, so if you can imagine it, this must take place, I don't know, maybe 50, 60 years ago
when dads used to wear hats to bed and women also handkerchiefs on their heads.
Maybe 200 years ago when people wore these long night hats, nightcaps.
The pajamas and everything.
All right, now let's jump over to line 18 and 19 when he's talking about the reindeer and the sleigh arriving
and he says, "'I knew in a moment it must be Saint Nick.'" This is another way of calling Santa Claus, right?
Saint Nicholas is his name, but you also call him Claus or Santa Claus.
Okay, and then he said, "'More rapid than eagles, his coursers they came.'"
So the word order is a bit strange here. This is common in poetry.
We could also say, "'His coursers came more rapidly than eagles.' They were very, very fast."
But what are these coursers? We're talking about the animals pulling Santa Claus.
And what are those animals again?
They're called reindeer.
Reindeer. So the reindeer are very, very fast.
Okay, that's right because he's making the comparison about how fast eagles are compared to them.
And we hear their names, right?
Exactly. He goes on to say, "'Now Dasher, now Dancer, now Prancer.'"
And all of their names, Vixen, Comet, Cupid, Donder, and Blitzen.
All eight reindeer. Each animal has its own name.
That's right. So all eight reindeer. Actually, we're missing one though that's very common nowadays.
The reindeer that goes in the front lighting, illuminating the sky.
Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer. You might know the song, "'Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer.'"
That's right. So there are actually nine reindeer nowadays,
but I guess this story was before the Rudolph story came out.
This is interesting because those are the names of all the reindeer.
Now, I'm not sure in which order they are. I don't know who's in the back, who's in the front.
I don't know either, but it's important to know that they're very fast,
and they come down, and then they go up.
They have to take Saint Nicholas to the roof of the house, on top of the house.
That's right. So now he arrives to the top of the house, line 32.
We see, down the chimney, Saint Nicholas came with a bound.
He came quickly, down the chimney, boom.
And at the end, he's all dressed in fur from his head to his foot.
So top to bottom, he has fur on.
That's right. And I think he's got fur because he lives in the North Pole, right?
That's right. And it's very cold where Santa Claus lives, so he has to wear these clothes that are very warm.
Okay. And obviously, since he is going up and down chimneys in line 34, we see,
and his clothes were tarnished with ashes and soot.
So to tarnish or tarnish means dirty.
Something is tarnished if it's dirty.
So his clothes, his fur clothes were dirty with ashes and soot.
This means that, you know, in your fireplace, when the fire is gone, there's some gray and black stuff.
And that's what's on Santa Claus' clothes.
So, and then we go on to line 35, a bundle of toys he had flung on his back.
And he looked like a peddler just opening his pack.
All right, a peddler. Now, this is not just something we talk about on Christmas.
You know, we have peddlers all year round.
What are peddlers? What do they do?
Basically, they go around selling things.
So maybe you see them in a small market or sometimes in different places and maybe, I don't know, on the streets.
You see them selling little things like toys or combs or books, something like that.
Oranges, you see fruit peddlers, people who sell fruit.
Or you can see those watch peddlers.
You know, they say, would you like a Rolex watch? That's a watch peddler.
So that's what they do, right? They're informal salesmen.
They don't have a store. They work on the street.
So this is why Santa looks like a peddler.
He isn't in a store. He has a bag.
And he says, look in my bag.
From line 37, we go on to describe the way Santa Claus looks like.
So he says, his eyes, how they twinkled.
His dimples, how merry.
Dimples are those small circles on your cheeks.
So some people, when they smile, they have these small holes or circles.
Those are dimples. They're very cute.
That's right. So not everyone has them, right?
Some people, when they smile, you can see those dimples.
All right. And his cheeks were like roses, his nose like a cherry.
So we're saying that they're red.
They're red. They're pink.
Okay. Now in line 39, he says, his droll little mouth was drawn up like a bow.
Now, droll is a word that some people still use.
It's pretty common in places like England.
We don't use it as much in America.
We say funny instead.
But something that is droll, D-R-O-L-L, droll is funny.
So his mouth, his face is funny looking.
Okay. His face is funny looking. All right.
And going on to line 45, we're describing how he was chubby and plump.
So we're basically saying he was a little bit fat.
Okay. A right jolly old elf.
So what is an elf?
An elf is actually normally we talk about elves.
So one elf, two elves as people, little people who help Santa.
They're mythical creatures who live in the North Pole and who make presents.
So an elf is a small creature who makes presents.
Or maybe lives in the woods.
There are many different stories with elves.
Right, right. Okay.
And in line 46, we say, and I laughed when I saw him in spite of myself.
What does he mean by in spite of myself?
This is really important and this is something we say in English all the time, in spite of myself.
So I laughed in spite of myself.
So I didn't want to laugh.
But I did.
I wanted to be serious.
But I did laugh.
So in spite of myself, I didn't want to laugh.
I laughed anyway.
So you say in spite of myself when you did the thing you did not want to do.
And finishing off, we are going towards the last three lines where we say,
and away they all flew like the down of a thistle.
What is a thistle?
They're talking about the part of a flower that's a thistle.
So they just, they all flew away like quickly, rapidly like the little flower.
Well, you know when a flower is sending its seeds out, it's down, it's white.
So maybe if you blow on a flower with the white seeds, they blow away.
That's what it looks like.
It looks like the seeds of a flower being blown away.
Very easy.
Line 55 says, but I heard him exclaim, ere he drove out of sight.
So this is an older way of saying, as he drove out of sight.
So as he's flying away, I can't see him anymore.
Almost I can't see him anymore.
He exclaimed something.
So ere means while this is happening.
Now this is another one of those maybe old English words that we don't use anymore, right?
You wouldn't really use ere.
Ere I was walking to school, I saw the milkman.
No, we don't say this anymore.
But you will find it in poetry and you might also find it in stories.
And line 56, he ends and this is very the famous way that this poem ends by saying,
Happy Christmas to all and to all a good night.
Yeah, this is the, and the first line of the poem are the most famous.
Everyone knows these.
So a beautiful poem.
Why don't we listen to it one more time?
Twas the night before Christmas when all through the house,
not a creature was stirring, not even a mouse.
The stockings were hung by the chimney with care,
in hopes that St. Nicholas soon would be there.
The children were nestled all snug in their beds,
while visions of sugar plums danced in their heads,
and Mama and Papa were in the garden.
The children were playing in the garden,
While visions of sugar plums danced in their heads, and Mama in her kerchief,
and I in my cap, had just settled down for a long winter's nap.
When out on the lawn there arose such a clatter,
I sprang from the bed to see what was the matter.
The moon on the breast of the new fallen snow gave the luster of midday to objects below.
When what to my wondering eyes should appear but a miniature sleigh,
and eight tiny reindeer, with a little old driver, so lively and quick,
More rapid than eagles his coursers they came,
and he whistled and shouted and called them by name.
Now Dasher, now Dancer, now Prancer and Vixen,
on Comet, on Cupid, on Donder and Blitzen.
To the top of the porch, to the top of the wall,
now dash away, dash away, dash away all.
As dry leaves that before the wild hurricanes fly,
when they meet with an obstacle, mount to the sky.
So up to the housetop the coursers they flew with the sleighs full of toys,
and St. Nicholas too.
And then, in a twinkling, I heard on the roof,
the prancing and pawing of each little hoof.
As I drew in my head and was turning around,
down the chimney St. Nicholas came with a bound.
He was dressed all in fur from his head to his toe,
and his clothes were all tarnished with ashes and soot.
A bundle of toys he had flung on his back,
and he looked like a peddler just opening his pack.
His eyes, how they twinkled! His dimples, how merry!
His droll little mouth was drawn up in a bow,
and the beard of his chin was as white as the snow.
The stump of a pipe he held tight in his teeth,
and the smoke had encircled his head like a wreath.
He had a broad face and a little round belly
that shook when he laughed like a bowl full of jelly.
He was chubby and plump, a right old jolly elf,
and I laughed when I saw him, in spite of myself.
A wink of his eye and a twist of his head
soon gave me to know I had nothing to dread.
He spoke not a word, but went straight to work
and filled all the stockings, then turned with a jerk,
and laying his finger aside of his nose
and giving a nod, up the chimney he rose.
He sprang to his sleigh, to his team gave a whistle,
Happy Christmas to all, and to all a good night!
It's very interesting because it's part of the American tradition of Christmas.
I think maybe also in other parts of the world
the poem might be translated or also might be popular.
But you know, Santa Claus and all these things
are traditions that are observed in some countries
and it's very interesting to understand them.
Absolutely, and I'm very curious to know about your Christmas traditions.
What do you do in your home country on Christmas Eve or on Christmas Day?
Do you know any poems like this or do you listen to this poem in translation?
Let us know. Our website is EnglishPod.com.
Alright guys, we'll see you there and have a Merry Christmas.
My name is Catherine and it's the holiday season, Marco.
People are eating large meals with their families and I think oftentimes when you cook a lot
of food, you have something extra at the end.
What do we call that?
Today we're going to talk about leftovers.
That's the extra food after your meal that you eat later, maybe the next day.
So, you know, during Christmas or during some holidays, we cook so much food that obviously
we can't eat it all.
So we put it back in the refrigerator and then we eat it later.
So those are called leftovers.
So let's listen to this dialogue about leftovers and we'll be back in a moment to discuss what's
happening in the dialogue.
Leftovers.
Leftovers of what and from when?
From last night.
I took the leftover turkey, mixed it with some diced peppers and onions, add a little
bit of mayonnaise and made some sandwiches.
Isn't that dangerous though?
I mean, bacteria and germs reproducing on food that was left out or reheated.
Well, I didn't leave the turkey out at room temperature for more than an hour and I refrigerated
soon after we finished eating.
Also when reheating, I put it in the oven for 15 minutes at 100 degrees Celsius.
I'm just afraid of getting food poisoning.
Making a new meal out of leftovers is almost an art.
Not only do you save money, but you also get to be creative and have something different
So a lot of vocab there.
Let's take a look at it in Language Takeaway.
So Marco, there's one cooking term really in this dialogue that is, it's a little bit
different from the others.
So let's start with that.
It's diced.
We were talking about taking some peppers or diced peppers.
So when you dice a vegetable or anything that you're cooking, basically you're making little
pieces, little squares almost.
So you can cut something many different ways.
You can cut big pieces and small pieces, but diced peppers, diced is a specific way to
cut something in small, like you say, small squares.
And so in recipes, you will often see this instruction, dice the peppers, or in this
case, the peppers are diced.
So we took some turkey, mix it with diced peppers and a lot of things.
And the roommate was a little bit concerned about bacteria and germs.
So bacteria and germs, these sound like very scientific words.
Bacteria is something that grows on, well, everything really.
But if you leave food out, for example, it gets bacteria or germs are things that can
make you sick.
So we need to avoid these things in the kitchen because they make us unhealthy.
And that's why we wash our hands and things like that.
But when you have food that's left out, the risk is what, Marco?
Is that you get bacteria or germs on it.
So it's dangerous, especially with meat.
If you leave it out, it's very, very dangerous because you can get some bacteria that will
And the reason why we're a little bit concerned, especially with meats, is if you leave it
out after cooking it at room temperature.
So room temperature is the temperature of a normal room.
Maybe it's 65 degrees or what's 25 degrees Celsius.
It's the temperature of the inside of a room.
And so it's not cold, it's not hot, it's just normal.
And when we leave food out, especially meat, like you're saying, we have to be careful.
You can't leave it out for very long if it's something like eggs or milk or what we call
perishables.
So actually, here comes the other two words that are a little bit of a contrast.
We're going to talk about food that is reheated or refrigerated.
So the roommate is explaining, don't worry, we have done these things to this food so
it's safe.
So one thing you can do to food to make it safe to kill germs is to reheat it.
That means, well, you know the word heated, right?
It's to make something hot.
How is that different from reheated?
Well, because you cooked it already, so it was warm.
Now it went a little bit cold because it's at room temperature.
So in order to make sure that it's safe to eat and you kill that bacteria, you reheat
it so you kind of cook it again a little bit.
Yeah, you cook it again.
So with leftovers, we often have to reheat things because they were hot, then they were
cold and now we want them hot again.
So we reheat them.
The opposite of that would be refrigerate.
Right, and this is what you should do.
If you take something and put it in the refrigerator, what you are doing, the verb, the action is
to refrigerate it.
So to refrigerate something means to make it cold.
You know, there are important things that we refrigerate.
We refrigerate eggs, we refrigerate milk, we refrigerate butter.
These are things that can make us sick if we don't make them cold.
So those are the two words.
Now obviously, it's a little bit different because the prefix to reheat means to do it
again while to refrigerate means you're just making it cold.
Well, they're important terms and again, we also have the adjectives.
This is reheated or refrigerated.
But there are another couple of phrases that are really important so let's take a listen
to those in Fluency Builder.
All right, so the first phrase we're going to take a look at is when one of the roommates
says, hey, what's for dinner?
All right, this is a very, very standard phrase.
This is something you'll hear at home, you'll hear with your friends.
It's usually something we say that when someone is cooking food for dinner.
We're asking what are we going to eat for dinner?
Mom, what's for dinner?
I used to say that every single day when I came home from school.
Well, obviously, you don't want to say the long phrase.
What are we going to have for dinner tonight?
So you just say, what's for dinner?
And then the answer would be lasagna or turkey sandwiches.
Now when they started talking about the leftover turkey, he was a little bit concerned as we
said about bacteria and germs because it usually happens that you get this on food that was
left out.
All right, so the verb here is to leave out, to leave something out.
It means to leave something or put something at room temperature.
So Marco, you and I are eating turkey, it's Thanksgiving, and we start to have coffee
and dessert and the turkey is still in the room, at room temperature.
We did not refrigerate it.
That means it was left out.
How long was it left out?
Well, maybe two hours.
That means so it's not in a refrigerator.
That's exactly what it means.
So maybe you go to sleep and you left the turkey out.
It's still on the table maybe at room temperature.
Oh no, we can't eat it if we left it out for like 12 hours.
All right, so it's not good to leave food out.
And now what happens is if you do eat food that was left out for too long, you could
get food poisoning.
Now this is very serious and it's something that you should be very careful about when
you're cooking.
Food poisoning is getting sick from your food.
There are different kinds of food poisoning, but usually it makes you throw up, it makes
your stomach hurt, it's quite painful.
And this is why we say you should wash your hands before you cook.
You should make sure that you refrigerate meat because you want to avoid food poisoning.
And it comes from the noun poison, a poison, which is something that is harmful for your
There are many different kinds of poison, but food poisoning means becoming sick, your
body getting sick after you eat something bad.
So with all this stuff here, we can review everything one last time.
Well I didn't leave the turkey at a room temperature for more than an hour and I refrigerated soon
after we finished eating.
All right, so this is actually good advice about leftovers, about having something to
eat.
But at the same time, I don't know how many people actually are very careful with these
For example, pizza.
Sometimes you leave pizza out on the table all night and the next morning you have some
pizza.
I always refrigerate my pizza.
I know people who leave their pizza out and then eat it, but there's cheese and sausage
and you want to refrigerate that stuff.
So I always wrap it in plastic and put it on a plate in the fridge.
You wrap it in plastic.
Well, because in the refrigerator there's also germs, so you need to make sure you cover
your food.
Right, right, right.
What about, have you ever had a bad case of food poisoning because of having leftovers?
I've had food poisoning, but not because of leftovers.
Because as I said before, I wrap things, I put them in the refrigerator.
I'm very careful because I don't want to get sick or I don't want to get other people sick.
But Thanksgiving or Christmas, you have to give food to many other people.
I don't want to make anyone sick.
And actually, you can get food poisoning not only from leftovers, but from maybe food that
maybe was expired.
Sometimes cheese maybe can be expired, you didn't realize it, and you get food poisoning.
Or from people who are cooking with things that are not clean.
So you have something that's not clean or food that's not fresh and it makes you very
So it's not good for your health.
So you have to be careful.
So it's an interesting thing, especially with, like I said, so many holidays where you cook
so much food that people have a lot of leftovers.
And not only that, but even at restaurants, maybe you order too much, so you have leftovers
you want to take home to your dog or to have later.
I love leftovers.
Let us know, do you have leftovers in your country?
Are there things that you should and shouldn't do when cooking?
Bye for now.
My name is Catherine and today we're talking about a very, well, it's a pretty important part of your child's education.
That's right. Something that many schools do is they have a conference between the teacher and the parent.
So, you know, they can talk about how the child is doing.
That's right. So this is something very common in American schools and it's important to learn some of the words that you will hear.
So let's take a listen to our dialogue and when we come back we'll be talking about what some of these words and phrases mean.
Thank you for coming tonight, Mr. Weber.
As a teacher, it's great seeing the kids' parents assist our parent-teacher conference tonight.
Of course. I'm very interested to know how my child is doing and also get some insight from you as to how he can improve.
Well, Alan is a great student. He's a hard worker and very well behaved.
However, he does struggle a bit with math.
I guess he gets that from me. I never did well in math when I was a kid.
What can I do at home to complement what he is learning in the classroom?
Well, it's important that you sit with him and review his homework assignments and help him with math.
I would also recommend he stay after school twice a week for tutoring sessions. It will really help a lot.
Thanks a lot. I will definitely do that. Is there anything else?
Um, yes. Here's a notice from our financial department. Seems your child's tuition is overdue.
Oh, yes. I...
All right, we're back. So now let's take a look at some language takeaway.
First up in language takeaway, we have the key phrase here, which is parent-teacher conference.
That's right. So it's a parent-teacher conference, a parent-teacher conference.
And it's basically a meeting between the parent of the child and the teacher of the child.
And they talk about how well he is doing or she is doing or what she needs or he needs to improve.
That's right. So this is something that can happen maybe twice a year, maybe four times a year.
It depends on the school, but it's just a meeting between the parents or parent of the child and his or her teacher.
That's right. So it's very common with schools in order to make sure that the parent knows how the child is doing in school and can improve maybe.
And one of the goals is to provide the parent with insight into how to help the child learn more.
OK. So insight is kind of like a better understanding of things.
More clear picture. Yeah. So I could say, you know what, Marco, I just don't get that woman, Cindy.
Can you provide some insight into why she made that decision?
That's right. So you want some more information or some type of explanation as to why she made that decision.
Exactly. And so the teacher will then provide this insight by describing what he or she thinks about the student.
That's right. And while the teacher went on to say that Alan is a great student, hard worker, very well behaved.
So he is a hard worker. That means he is this is not an address.
This is now he is a hard worker. She is a hard worker. He is very well behaved.
Now, this is a way to describe him. He is not naughty. He is well behaved.
That means he doesn't start fights. He doesn't talk in class. He doesn't cheat.
OK, so what would be the opposite? You say a child or a person is well behaved. What would be the opposite?
I would say the the child who is not well behaved is naughty.
OK, so you say he is not well behaved or just he is naughty.
He's very naughty. He always starts fights in class.
OK, now the student is having a little bit of problems with math.
And so the parent asks what he can do to complement what he is learning in the classroom.
OK, so to complement, you might have heard this verb before, but here it means something special.
It means to add to. All right. So, OK, the boy, Alan, he's learning a lot in school,
but maybe he's not learning enough because his math scores just aren't good enough.
So the father wants to know what can he do in addition to school.
Right. You know, what can he do extra to help his boy so that will it will complement his studies.
That's right. So we have to complement someone as to say, oh, you look nice today
or this in this situation, this verb we are saying to provide more support or extra help to something.
That's right. So I feel really good about accounting, but I want to take an extra math class
to complement my accounting studies because I'm just not very confident in my math.
Very good. Exactly. All right. So and towards the end, well, we're talking about how the child's tuition is overdue.
The teacher says the child's tuition is overdue. What is tuition, Marco?
Well, the tuition is the fees that you have to pay for school.
OK, so maybe a private school will have a tuition. So a high school or an elementary school.
But you often hear this in regards to college or university. So college tuitions in America are very expensive.
That's right. And when a tuition is overdue, it means that it hasn't been paid yet.
And so the payment is late. The payment is late. Now, a lot of things can be overdue.
That means they've passed their due date. A bill can be overdue.
That's right. So you should have paid your bill already, but you haven't. So it's overdue.
OK, so a lot of vocab there. Why don't we listen to our dialogue again?
Thank you for coming tonight, Mr. Weber. As a teacher, it's great seeing the kids' parents
assist our parent-teacher conference night.
Of course. I am very interested to know how my child is doing and also get some insight from you as to how he can improve.
Well, Alan is a great student. He's a hard worker and very well behaved. However, he does struggle a bit with math.
Alright, we're back. So now we've prepared three key phrases for you on Fluency Builder.
Alright, the first phrase here on Fluency Builder is to struggle with. So, Alan is a great student, but he does struggle with math.
That's right. So, to struggle with something means that you are having a hard time. It's difficult for you.
It is difficult. So, when I was a student in elementary school, I struggled with science. Is there anything you struggled with, Marco?
I struggled with... I struggled a little bit with history.
Interesting. So, for Marco, history was hard. For me, science was hard.
But you can also use it for your work, right? You can say, I'm struggling a little bit at work.
I'm struggling with my new schedule. I have too much to do.
Okay. So, after the teacher said that Alan is struggling with math, the parent actually said, I guess he gets that from me.
I never did well in math when I was a kid. So, what is the parent saying?
He gets that from me or she gets that from me. This means that the child has the same problems the parent has.
So, when the parent was little, he had a hard time with math. He struggled with math.
And now his child struggles with math. So, it's something that maybe he inherited or he got from his father.
He gets that from me.
Right. So, sometimes you will hear that maybe somebody is stubborn and you say, well, you know, I get that from my dad.
Yes. I'm very talkative. I get that from my mother. That means my mother is talkative and I have the same characteristic.
So, we're basically saying that you kind of genetically inherit the same characteristics.
All right. And the teacher said that, well, in order to improve, Alan should attend tutoring sessions.
Tutoring sessions. Now, this is important. You might have heard the word tutor before.
I have a math tutor. But a tutoring session is actually the time you spend together with your tutor practicing something or studying something.
Right. So, you don't have a class with your tutor. You have a tutoring session.
That's right. Class is for a teacher and many students. But a tutoring session is one-on-one.
It's two people together, a tutor and a student, a learner.
So, the word tutor can be a noun. You have a tutor, which is a person that helps you or you can tutor someone.
To tutor, which means to teach or to help.
That's right. So, in college, I had a tutoring session with a math tutor two times a week.
That means my math tutor helped me learn math outside of school, after school.
Very good. Alright. So, a lot of great stuff there. Let's listen to the dialogue one last time.
Thank you for coming tonight, Mr. Weber. As a teacher, it's great seeing the kids' parents assist our parent-teacher conference tonight.
Alright. So, parent-teacher conferences, a very common thing. A very common thing.
And I think sometimes even a little bit scary for the kid because, you know, your parent is going to go talk to your teacher
and maybe your teacher is not going to say great things about you.
Yeah, this is always very nerve-wracking for children because maybe you didn't tell your mom and dad
what you got on your test in science last week and then your teacher will tell your parents and your parents will be angry.
So, this is the time when the parents can be honest with the teacher and the teacher can be honest with the parents.
That's right because sometimes teachers will have a file with maybe your test scores and they will show them to your parents.
So, not only what you get on your report card but then you actually see the tests and it could be like you say a little nerve-wracking.
I've also heard though it can be nerve-wracking for the teacher because sometimes teachers have to tell parents things
that they don't really want to know about their kids.
If the teacher says, hey, your boy Alan, he's not very good at math, maybe Alan's dad gets angry.
And says, yo, no, that's not true. He's very good at math.
So, it can be hard for everyone but I think generally they're very positive. They really help the students.
Well, it's interesting and actually I haven't really seen parent-teacher conferences to be that common outside of the United States.
So, maybe if you're a parent, you have attended a parent-teacher conference or maybe when you were a kid, your parents went to your parent-teacher conference.
And if you don't have teacher conference, parent-teacher conferences in your country, what do you have?
How do parents and teachers talk?
My name is Catherine and it's the start of a very new year so we have some interesting
vocabulary for you today about the new year.
So we are starting a new year.
Why don't we just jump right into this dialogue.
It's almost midnight.
We're about to start a brand new year.
It's exciting.
A new year is always like a clean slate.
A fresh start to accomplish any dreams, objectives and goals.
Do you have a new year's resolution?
I was thinking about it but I'm never able to keep my new year's resolutions.
Last year for example I joined a gym and only went twice.
Yeah, I know what you mean.
That's why this year I am keeping things more simple.
Maybe like getting together with friends I haven't seen in a long time or doing some
volunteering work.
That seems reasonable.
We should get together and watch the ball drop in Times Square.
Sure, as long as you don't try to kiss me at midnight.
Well, we can't break tradition.
It's bad luck.
So we've prepared a couple of different words for you on language takeaway.
The first word we have is actually a phrase.
We have this phrase brand new.
Something is a brand new thing.
We said that we are starting a brand new year.
And that's just another way of saying completely new.
So I want a brand new bicycle.
It means I want a new bicycle from the store, not one from the garage.
So it's something completely new, never been used.
So we're starting a brand new year and we're saying it's exciting because it's a great
opportunity like having a clean slate.
So a clean slate.
Now this is an interesting phrase because you might not know what a slate is, but basically
it means that you start from the very beginning.
So there's no history.
There's no nothing that you have to worry about.
You start completely new.
That's a clean slate.
So just imagine you're in class and you have the whiteboard or the chalkboard and you just
erase everything and then you start again.
That's kind of what it means to have a clean slate, a new start.
And so we have a clean slate.
We need to talk about what we will do with the clean slate.
And so one person asks the other, do you have any new year's resolutions?
So this is one of the most popular things during the new year's is people make a new
year's resolution.
So a resolution is something that you have decided you will do.
I have many resolutions.
I will learn to play the piano this year.
So in the new year, I will do this thing.
So it's really like a promise, something that you promise yourself that you will do in the
new year.
So as you say, maybe start playing the piano.
So we call that a resolution or if we want to be specific, we call it a new year's resolution.
Now at the very end of the dialogue, we heard another phrase.
This is quite strange.
They want to kiss at midnight.
And the one person says, well, we can't break tradition.
To break a tradition or to break tradition.
That basically means to not do something that we usually do.
So you can follow tradition.
That means that you do the same thing maybe every year.
But if you break tradition, that means you don't do what you are expected to do.
So remember that verb is to break, break tradition.
So let's review this vocab.
I know it's so exciting.
A new year is always like a clean slate, a fresh start to accomplish any dreams, objectives
and goals.
I was thinking about it, but I'm never able to keep my new year's resolutions.
Last year, for example, I joined a gym and only went twice.
As long as you don't try to kiss me at midnight.
So let's take a look at those phrases now on Fluency Builder.
So there's a phrase in here that I use all the time.
We heard about this resolution to go to the gym more often.
And the person said, you know, I never really go to the gym.
And the other said, you know, I know what you mean.
She says, yeah, I know what you mean.
And so basically we use this when you agree with the person, you understand what they
are saying.
It's almost like saying I had the same experience.
So maybe I also belong to a gym and I never go to that gym just like you.
So it means I know what you mean.
I have the same problem.
So you can just agree with someone, completely agree with someone by saying, yeah, I know
what you mean or I know what you mean.
So, well, this year we want to keep things a little bit more simple.
And we said, well, maybe like getting together with friends I haven't seen in a long time.
So let's think about this to get together with friends.
Lots of words there, but you can see friends, but to get together means to be social with,
to hang out with, to do things together.
But it's not very specific.
It's a nice way to say just to be with your friends.
So maybe you are going with your friends out, maybe shopping, maybe to the movies.
So you say, yeah, I'm going to get together with my friends later on this afternoon.
So we can get together with friends as a resolution.
That's something we want to do in the near future.
But for now, we're going to get together and watch the ball drop in Times Square.
That's the New Year's plan.
So it may seem strange.
It's not actually a phrasal verb or a colloquial phrase.
There is actually a ball that goes down as the countdown begins to midnight.
And once it completely disappears, then you celebrate the New Year.
So you actually see this big round ball coming down in Times Square.
It's a way to count down to the New Year.
So people often say 10, 9, 8, 7 to the countdown and the ball will drop.
And that means it's the New Year.
So this is something that we refer to.
It's something we talk about when we want to discuss the New Year.
So we'll watch the ball drop together.
Why don't we listen to the dialogue one last time.
It's so exciting.
Do you have a New Year's resolution?
I was thinking about it, but I'm never able to keep my New Year's resolutions.
So talking about New Year's, everyone makes New Year's resolutions and people get together
to watch the ball drop in Times Square.
Now this is more of an American thing.
Have you ever experienced anything different for New Year's?
Some other type of tradition?
Because also here, they kiss at midnight.
Well, that's a pretty standard American tradition.
People will get together and they'll have the TV on.
They'll have a party or they'll be with friends and they will maybe watch some fireworks or
watch the TV as the ball drops.
So I've done both.
I've gone out because sometimes you go outside, it's very cold, but you go to a bridge or
a park or somewhere public or the city government or the state will have some kind of special
fireworks display.
So then everyone will watch the fireworks or watch a big TV screen.
And then when it's midnight, when it's the new year, then everyone will kiss.
So everyone will kiss.
Maybe I mean, is it like just between couples or whoever's available, you kiss whoever's
Sometimes it's whoever is available.
That's happened to me where you turn around and you say, oh, hi, I don't know you.
So the tradition is you have to kiss someone at midnight.
So this is for good luck.
For good luck in the new year.
So if you don't kiss someone, then you're kind of breaking the tradition.
It's kind of sad.
And it's unlucky.
An interesting way of celebrating New Year's, this is as we said, in the United States,
watching the ball drop, kissing someone at midnight.
So we are really curious to know how you celebrate your New Year's in your country because maybe
you have similar traditions or very different things.
And I know some places like Italy even have special foods you are supposed to eat to bring
wealth and prosperity in the new year.
My name is Catherine and today EnglishPod is in the kitchen.
That's right. Today we are going to hit the kitchen and we're going to bake a cake.
Alright, so check out this dialogue first and when we come back we'll be talking about some very key phrases and words for cooking in English.
Okay, so are you ready to learn how to bake a cake?
Almost. Let me just put my apron on.
Okay, so the first thing we're going to do is preheat the oven.
That way we have it at the desired temperature once we finish preparing everything.
Set it to 375 degrees Fahrenheit.
Now we're going to make the batter.
Take some butter and sugar and mix it lightly until you have a nice consistency.
Then add some vanilla extract and eggs and continue mixing.
Do I have to use the whisk or can I use the electric mixer?
Go ahead and use the mixer, but put it on medium speed.
I'm going to sift the flour and baking powder separately and then we can mix it with milk and the rest of the ingredients.
Okay, so now we need a baking pan, right?
Yeah, but grease and flour it first so the cake won't stick to it when it bakes.
Done. So how long do we bake it for?
We can leave it in there for about 25 minutes.
Then we let it cool for 10 minutes before we remove the cake from the pan.
Wow, this is a lot easier than I thought.
Alright, we're back. So now let's take a look at some of those key words on Language Takeaway.
Well, first of all, we have a special thing to keep our clothes clean while we are cooking.
What is this thing called, Marco?
This is called an apron.
An apron.
So it's not actually a shirt, it's a piece of fabric that you maybe tie around your waist or around your neck to protect your clothes from flour and butter and oil.
That's right. So it's very common to wear an apron while you're cooking or maybe while you're cleaning the house or the kitchen in order to avoid getting dirty, like you say.
So we're going to start baking our cake and the first thing that we do is we turn on the oven in order to have it at the desired temperature.
Now this is something you might see in a recipe that says the desired temperature is 450 degrees.
So that means the temperature you want to achieve. Maybe when you turn the oven on it's only 100 degrees.
So you have to wait for the desired temperature, which is what is indicated in the recipe.
That's right. So this is what we want. We want the desired temperature of 375 degrees.
So now we got that done and now we're going to make the batter.
All right. The batter is the liquid, it's the cake, before the cake becomes a cake.
So it's usually like a very thick liquid, like a very thick, almost buttery, milky substance.
And after you cook it, it turns hard. So batter is the liquid form.
Right. So when you're making a cake, you make batter.
Now it's different because if you're making pizza or you're making bread, it's not called batter.
No. If you're making pizza or bread, because those are thicker, they're called dough.
But when it's still like milk or water, it's like a liquid, we call it a batter.
A batter. Very good. So obviously to make the batter, we add sugar, we add butter, we add eggs.
And then what we want to do is we want to mix it. And so the other person asks, well, what do I do?
Do I have to use a whisk or an electric mixer?
All right. These are two very important tools that you will find in most kitchens.
A whisk is like a spoon, but it's made of metal and it's empty inside.
And we use it for things like eggs or milk and sugar. And it can go very, very quickly.
It makes a kss, kss, kss, kss sound, like a whisk sound.
Yeah, it's like a wire all around it.
Yeah, it's wire that's woven together. And so it's a very, very handy tool, but you only use one hand to use it.
But an electric mixer is what the name says. It's electric. You plug it in and it does the whisking automatically.
That's right. All right. So this is what we want to use.
And before we put the batter into the baking pan, what we want to do first is we want to grease and flour the sides of the baking pan.
So then, you know, it won't stick.
All right. So to grease something means to use oil or butter to make sure that the meat or the dough does not stick later.
That's right. So you can even use it for, obviously, in cooking terms, if you put butter or something like this,
but even grease, like the black grease, maybe you need to put it in your door because maybe it's making that weird sound.
Right. So to grease something is to add oil or to add butter in order to keep something from sticking.
That's right. OK. So a lot of words there. Now, why don't we pass on to some phrases?
Let's start with some fluency builder.
Now, at the beginning of the dialogue, we talked about the oven.
The real phrase you're going to see in a cookbook is preheat the oven.
That's right. So we have the prefix there, pre, to preheat something.
And that means to begin or to start heating.
Now, this is because when I turn my oven on, right, Marco, it's not 450 degrees.
It takes some time to become hot.
So we preheat the oven. We turn it on before we need it in order to make sure it's ready when we do need it.
That's right. So you're going to see it in every recipe. If you're baking something, you need to preheat the oven.
And now when we were actually mixing some of the things, we came up on this interesting phrase when we said we need to sift the flour and the baking powder.
All right. Now, these are both white substances. They're soft.
They're dry. And sometimes they are. They're bumpy. They have lumps in them.
So we need to make sure that there are no lumps.
And we have a special tool that will help us sift the flour and sift the baking powder.
So it's like a wire mesh tool. And you rotate the handle. You turn the handle.
And it will flatten out this flour so that there are no more bumps. It's all smooth.
OK. I think I've heard it also when they're talking about gold, right?
Don't they say that they were sifting for gold in the rivers?
That's right. Well, you have a tray and you shake the tray to make sure the small gold falls down, but the big, the chunks stay on top.
That's the same idea. Yeah.
OK. So that's what we're doing here. We're sifting the flour and the baking powder.
And now we put our cake in the oven and we ask, well, so how long do we bake it for?
And we say, well, we can leave it in there for about 25 minutes.
So the phrase here, to leave it in, means to keep the cake in the oven.
And this is something we can say about a lot of things.
So maybe the turkey that we're cooking is in the oven. It's been in the oven for four hours.
And I look at it and I say, is it ready yet? My mom says, no, leave it in. Leave it in.
So that means don't take it out. Keep it in the oven. Leave it in.
So we don't really need to say leave it inside the oven or we don't need to be too specific.
We can just say leave it in. Keep it cooking. Keep it cooking. That's right.
OK. So let's listen to our dialogue one last time.
OK. So are you ready to learn how to bake a cake?
OK. So the first thing we're going to do is preheat the oven.
I'm going to sift the flour and baking powder separately
and then we can mix it with milk and the rest of the ingredients.
OK. So now we need a baking pan, right?
Wow. This is a lot easier than I thought.
So baking a cake seems easy enough.
Now maybe there are some other things that we can add that we didn't mention.
Like, for example, vanilla extract. It's mentioned in the recipe.
So that is a liquid, right?
It's a liquid. It's a flavor.
So extracts are used to give different foods flavors.
You can have orange extract and vanilla extract.
Vanilla comes from a bean, a brown bean.
They take the oil from this plant and that's what gives things like cake a vanilla flavor.
Now what about this baking pan?
This is specifically for cakes.
Now what if you're making something like muffins? Is it also called a baking pan?
No, you'd have a muffin tin or a muffin pan.
And so those are a different shape.
They're round. They're circular.
They're made of that tin material.
They're not very heavy and they can go in the oven and not break.
But normally we have a baking sheet which is flat.
Or a baking pan which would be for a cake pan.
It's got sides on it.
And we have a muffin tin which is for muffins.
And what we didn't mention is we actually have our cake
but then there's something that we always add on top of the cake or all over the cake.
Yeah, well not always but most cakes, at least most tasty cakes, have frosting.
So that's something that you add after the cake has finished cooking.
That's right. So frosting is like a cream or something that you add around the cake.
It's actually just sugar and water.
Sugar and water. Oh really?
You can add milk if you want to make it thicker.
But when I make frosting, I like to make it from scratch.
That means I make it by myself.
I use water and powdered sugar.
Powdered sugar. And then you mix it.
You mix it. You whisk it.
And then you get the frosting.
And well, maybe this recipe is actually real.
Although we didn't give the amounts, the quantities.
But maybe you can try baking a cake and let us know how it goes.
Or maybe you can give us a cake recipe.
That's right. Our website is EnglishPod.com.
All right. Bye.
And we're in the mood to read something today, so we're going to a place called the library,
We're going to go to the library and we're going to get some books.
But before we do that, let's take a look at a word in vocabulary preview.
So, today's vocabulary preview word is a thing that you use when you go to the library to
take that book home.
You don't have to pay for the book.
You use your library card to borrow it.
So, this is something that you need when you want to get books at the library.
You need a library card.
So, we're going to talk about this and how you get a library card.
Wow!
Look at all these books.
I bet I can find a book about anything here.
Shh!
Please keep your voice down.
There are people reading and studying here.
Are you the librarian?
Maybe you can help me.
I am looking for a book.
You can check our online catalog to search for the book you want based on the genre,
title, or if you know the author, I can point you towards the right direction.
I'm looking for a book that has nursery rhymes.
That would be in our children's section.
That bookshelf there on the right.
I would like to check out these books.
Do you have a library card?
How do I get one?
I just need to see your driver's license or utility bill to prove that you are a resident
of this state.
So, you're all set.
You can have these books for two weeks.
If you need to have them longer, you can bring them here to renew them.
If you don't, you get charged 10 cents a day for each book.
So, now, let's start with Language Takeaway.
We have a lot of great things for you today in Language Takeaway.
The first is actually a job.
This is a person who works at a library.
What's that person called?
He or she is called a librarian.
So, someone who works at a library is a librarian.
So, this person organizes the books, knows about all the books that are there, and basically
takes care of the library.
So, if you need help in the library, it's probably a good idea to ask the librarian
where the book you're looking for is.
And today, we went in looking for a specific type of book.
We wanted a book that had nursery rhymes.
Nursery rhymes.
Now, these are kind of like songs or poems, things that we tell little children and babies.
So, Mary had a little lamb, little lamb.
That is a nursery rhyme.
It's a playful poem for children.
So, obviously, since we are looking for nursery rhyme books, the librarian told us that we
need to go to the children's section.
Now, before we get to borrow this book, there are a couple of things we need because the
person doesn't have a library card.
Now, the question is, how do I get a library card?
What was the librarian's response, Marco?
Well, it was pretty simple.
All we needed was to see that person's driver's license or a utility bill.
So, a driver's license is an ID card, an identification card that you get that allows
you to drive a car.
Now, each state has a different kind of driver's license and different rules for how to get
one, but this is a very common, almost the most common kind of identification in America.
So, basically, you show them your driver's license and it has a picture of you there,
your telephone number, and even your address.
But not everybody has a driver's license.
Some people don't drive.
Some people can't drive.
Some people don't want to drive.
So, they would have to show something else.
And a good way to show that you live somewhere is to show your utility bill.
So, a utility is basically water, electricity, gas, or your telephone bill, and it arrives
to your house and that's where it's, well, obviously, it says your address there and
who the bill is directed to.
So, you can prove that you live there.
Because why would somebody else pay for the water at that house?
It's obviously you.
So, these are a couple kinds of identification you can use to get a library card.
And while we're taking the books, we can borrow them for two weeks, but if we need to have
them for a longer period of time, we can take them back to the library and have them renewed.
So, to renew something, renew, means to continue to borrow it.
You have to re-borrow.
But we don't say re-borrow.
We say renew.
So, that means we get it for another two weeks.
So, things that expire, usually you need to renew, like for example, your driver's license.
Usually it will last maybe five years, but then you need to renew your driver's license.
And if you don't renew it, if you forget to renew something, maybe there'll be a problem.
Like in the case of the library, you have to pay for the late fees.
Your book is overdue.
Or in the case of a driver's license, if your driver's license is overdue, well, you probably
have to get a new one.
Okay, so a lot of vocab there.
Why don't we review everything and we'll be right back.
Look at all these books!
I bet I can find a book about anything here!
Okay, I'm sorry.
Okay, I would like to check out these books.
No, how do I get one?
So you're all set.
Okay, thanks.
Alright, so now we have three key phrases for you on Fluency Builder.
So Marco, what are librarians famous for?
Well, librarians are always telling you to please keep your voice down.
Alright, so libraries are quiet places.
They're places where people like to go and read and think and study.
So oftentimes when people are talking, they're being loud, the librarian will say, hey, keep
your voice down or be quiet.
So another way of saying be quiet is keep your voice down.
And it's a little bit more polite.
Keep your voice down.
Or if there's two people or three people, you'd say, keep your voices down.
So the librarian tells us to keep our voice down.
And well, now we can get some help from the librarian.
And he says that, you know, if you know the title of the book or the genre or the name
of the author, the librarian can point you towards the right direction.
Now to point someone in the right direction or point someone towards the right direction
means to help them understand where to go.
Maybe they don't know exactly the title of the book or the author, but in this case,
the librarian can help put the person in the right place.
So I can point you in the right direction or point you towards the right direction.
Even maybe you're lost in a town and you stop and ask someone for directions because you
don't know how to get there.
And that person can help you by pointing you towards the right direction.
So this means I can help you basically.
And now what we wanted to do was we wanted to borrow books from the library.
We wanted to get books from the library.
But we have another way of saying this.
We can say we want to check out some books.
So to check out a book means to borrow it, like you say.
But this is also a noun.
That's the place where you scan something.
So maybe there's a bar, a black bar on the back of the book.
When you scan it, it scans out.
That means that you're borrowing it.
You get it for two weeks and you bring it back to check out.
So a lot of great stuff in this dialogue today, learning about libraries and how to get a
library card.
Why don't we review everything one last time?
Okay I would like to check out these books.
So borrowing books in a library seems pretty simple and you don't really have to leave
a deposit or something just in case you steal the book or you damage it.
How do you deal with this?
No, well libraries are a wonderful part of, well at least American culture.
I'm not really sure how they work in other places, but in America there's a lot of federal
money in libraries.
In fact, I think it was Franklin Roosevelt who really helped get a library system in
place in America.
So they're a part of this system of kind of community sharing and information.
You can go to the library and look for jobs.
They have computers.
Many have DVD and video sections.
Many have very wonderful CD sections.
So basically it's a community center for information, knowledge.
And it's almost a relationship of trust.
I trust that the library will provide for me and the library will trust that I don't
destroy a book.
Of course, if you do, you have to pay.
You have to pay.
So is it a federal offense to steal a book from a library?
I don't know, but it's a pretty big deal to steal a book from the library.
They certainly will know who you are because they have your information, your driver's
license.
It's actually pretty interesting, especially because, as you said, libraries, there's
a lot of money put into libraries.
So all communities have them, as you say, DVDs or movies or a lot of different types
of books.
And in other countries, like maybe in Latin America, it's not as popular to have a community
library where you can go and check things out because there's not that much money involved
But we would be curious to know how it works in your country.
Maybe your country has some beautiful or extensive libraries.
Yeah, I'm very curious as well.
So public libraries, do you have them?
And if you don't, do you also have university libraries you can go to?
All right, guys, we'll see you there.
Bye
My name is Catherine and we're here talking about some special foods today.
Today we're going to talk about seafood.
So everything that comes from the sea that we eat.
So we're in a restaurant and we're going to hear about the different options this restaurant
offers.
Let's take a listen to the dialogue.
This is such a nice restaurant.
I feel so classy.
Yeah, it's a little bit pricey, but they serve the best seafood in town.
Yes, I would like some marinated grilled shrimp for starters and I'll also have the lobster.
Excellent choice, sir.
And for you, madam?
I would like the baked oysters and the seafood platter.
Very good, madam.
That seafood platter sounds good.
Excuse me, what does the platter have?
It's a great combination of clams, scallops, mussels, calamari and filet of salmon and
tuna.
It comes with a side of butter sauce and French fries.
Cancel the lobster and give me one of the same, please.
Anything to drink?
Can we get a bottle of your house white wine, please?
Superb choice.
I will be back shortly with the wine.
So today we're going to take a look at a lot of vocab, so we're going to have two parts
of language takeaway and let's start with the first one.
Now, in language takeaway part one today, we have a number of really important and useful
The first one is classy.
So we're going to a nice restaurant and so you feel like you're in a classy place.
Now, a classy place is a nice place.
You might be expected to dress nicely.
It might be a little bit fancy.
So, classy is kind of a synonym of fancy or luxurious.
So if you're going on a date with someone, it might be a good idea to go to a classy
restaurant.
But usually if a restaurant is classy, it also means that it's a little bit pricey.
So something that is pricey is expensive and seafood is famous in America for being very
pricey.
So pricey means that it's a little bit expensive.
Now going to the food that we're going to get today, we had a couple of different ways
of describing how the food was prepared.
So for example, the first one is marinated grilled shrimp.
Now, something that is marinated is covered in a sauce or a liquid before it's cooked.
So you can have maybe a regular steak, but you can also have a marinated steak, which
would be marinated in some kind of flavor like garlic or yogurt.
So usually you leave it in maybe some sauce like garlic sauce for a couple of hours or
a couple of minutes before you cook it.
Now when we cook it, there are different ways of cooking things.
In this case, we're having grilled shrimp.
Now grilled is different from fried.
Fried we do in a pan with some oil, but a grill, usually there's no pan, no oil.
There's just a grill.
So grill, grilled.
Grill is the tool that we use.
Grilled food tends to be quite healthy.
There's very little oil.
It's a bit more dry.
And oftentimes we do grilling outside because there's lots of smoke.
Because usually you have like maybe a barbecue and you have some charcoal in there or some
wood and that's what you use to cook the food with.
And grilled food is very easy to notice because there are usually black lines on top and bottom.
That's from the grill.
So we've eliminated grilled shrimp for starters.
So what is a starter?
Well think about the word starter.
Start.
Now a starter is something you eat at the start of your meal, at the beginning.
You eat it before you eat the main course.
So it's also known as an appetizer.
Starters and appetizers are the same thing.
And these are small things you eat before you start to eat your main meal.
So they're not very filling.
So yeah, it'll be something small like a soup or maybe like in this case some marinated
grilled shrimp.
So great vocab there.
Why don't we review that part and we'll be back in a bit.
It's a little bit pricey but they serve the best seafood in town.
I would like some marinated grilled shrimp for starters and I'll also have the lobster.
So now let's take a look at all the exquisite types of seafood that we have here on Language
Now the first thing we have in Language Takeaway Part 2 is a very distinctive animal from the
ocean.
It's bright red and it has two claws.
We're talking about a lobster.
Now lobsters, you don't find everywhere.
In fact, there are some parts of America where they're very famous for their lobster like
Maine.
Now these are animals that are hard on the outside and soft and white on the inside and
they're quite difficult to eat.
So they look kind of like crabs because they also have the claws and everything but they're
a lot longer, right?
They're round and a lobster is long and lobsters are also famous for one part, for their tails.
The tails are full of meat.
They're very delicate, very delicious.
So we're having some lobster and we also ordered some baked oysters.
Now oysters are another kind of thing that comes from the ocean.
They come in a shell, all right?
And you might hear about oysters because some people, some restaurants like to have an oyster
bar where they serve raw oysters over ice.
So they look like big rocks basically and when you open them inside, you have meat.
And actually I think you get pearls from oysters, right?
So these two are special.
They have a nice relationship.
The pearl forms inside, it grows inside of the oyster.
So now we've taken a look at some oysters and talking about these things that have shells,
we also have clams.
Now while oysters are big and sometimes quite shiny, clams are smaller, usually white or
gray and they have lines on them and they're shells that you open up and you eat the meat
from inside.
So I guess if you've ever been on the beach and you're collecting little seashells, usually
those are kind of like clams.
They're quite small.
They can be about the size of an American quarter, 25 cents.
So now in this seafood platter that we're ordering, we have clams, we have scallops.
Ooh, scallops are one of my favorite kinds of seafood.
They're quite soft and chewy and they're usually white.
And then we have some mussels also.
Now mussels are much different looking.
They're also in shells, but they're long and the shells are black.
So clams are kind of small and round.
The oysters are pretty big and look like rocks.
Mussels on the other hand are long and black and when you open them inside, they're shiny
also.
They're orange on the inside or yellow and so they're quite interesting looking, but
they're also very famous for the French or Belgian rather, the Belgian dish, Moules Frites,
which is a nice specialty.
And lastly, we are also having some calamari in this seafood platter.
Oh, this is another one of my favorites.
Now calamari is a kind of food, but the animal is the squid.
So why is it called calamari?
Well calamari, I believe, comes from the Italian word calamaro.
Calamari means that it's squid that's been cooked so that people can eat it.
So basically calamari and squid are the same thing.
They are the same animal, but calamari means that it's prepared to eat.
And usually it's fried.
So when squid is fried, it becomes hard, chewy.
And that's what calamari tastes like.
It's quite chewy.
Let's review everything one last time with this exquisite lesson.
It's a great combination of clams, scallops, mussels, calamari, and filet of salmon and
All right, so seafood, we said, usually has the connotation of being a little bit pricey.
Why do you think that is?
I think it's pricey because the best seafood doesn't come from seafood farms.
It comes from people who go in boats and they collect the seafood in nets.
And also, there are fewer and fewer places now in America where you can find this kind
of food because some places have experienced overfishing.
Too many people are trying to fish.
And also, some places just don't have the right climate for certain animals.
So, for example, in the United States, you do have, well, the whole country is covered
in the West Coast by the Pacific Ocean.
The East Coast, you have the Atlantic.
So obviously, you do have some coasts.
But if you're in the middle of the United States, it's probably hard to get seafood.
So, I imagine it's very expensive.
It can be very, very expensive.
So oftentimes, we get lake food.
It's different kind of fish, but we don't have lobsters.
But you'll find that in the West, you get very good salmon because Alaska in the Northwest
is very famous for salmon from the Pacific.
And in the East, it's very famous for lobster and crab, which are delicious.
Now, even though you have, it's famous for lobster and crab, it's still relatively expensive
compared to other dishes.
Like for example, I think a lobster, how much would a lobster dinner cost?
A lobster dinner could cost you $150.
And you're getting almost the same amount of meat as maybe having a steak that would
be $20.
Yeah, less meat.
But we have more cows than we have lobsters.
And also, lobsters are famous for being pretty expensive.
It's a very fancy meal to have lobsters.
So, it's very interesting.
Some countries, for example, so it's very interesting, but some countries, seafood is
very, very inexpensive.
Some communities or some countries or communities that fish or have, for example, shrimp farms,
it's very inexpensive.
So, it's such a treat to be able to go there and have seafood all you want and not have
to spend $300 on a meal.
It is indeed.
And it's really nice to be able to get these big prawns, these big shrimp or lobsters
and eat them without worrying about the price.
But I'm curious, in your country, do you have seafood?
And if so, what kind?
Is it cheap?
Is it pricey?
And remember, practice guilty pleasure.
My name is Catherine and today we're traveling a little bit and we need to book a hotel room.
So today we're going to learn all the words and phrases that will help you talk to the
receptionist in order to book a hotel room.
Madison Sweets, how may I help you?
Yes, I am calling from Mexico.
I will be in town in a few minutes.
I'm sorry, I'm not available.
I will be in town next week and would like to know if you have availability?
Ok, ma'am.
Can you tell me the date you expect to check in?
Yes, July ninth.
I will be there for seven nights.
We have a junior single suite or a superior double suite available for those dates.
The junior suite is smaller and has one twin bed, while the superior suite has a double
bed and minibar.
Ok, I would like to reserve the superior suite.
Is breakfast included?
Yes, a buffet breakfast is served every morning.
I will need your name and your credit card details in order to complete the reservation.
My credit card number is...
So we've got a lot of great phrases and words today in language takeaway.
The first one comes from the beginning of the dialogue.
It's availability.
So the woman wanted to know if the hotel has availability.
That means, do you have free rooms?
Do you have any rooms I could rent?
So instead of saying, do you have any free rooms or do you have rooms available?
You can just say, do you have availability?
So you're basically asking the person, do you have anything available?
So what's your availability?
So we have availability and obviously the receptionist needs to know when we expect
to check in.
So this is a noun and a verb, but in today's dialogue, it's used as a verb.
So it's something we do to check in.
So the person on the phone would like to know what date you expect to check in.
That means when will you arrive at our hotel?
So maybe we will arrive to the city a couple of days before we check into the hotel.
So we really specifically want to know when are you going to start sleeping here?
And the opposite, so when you leave the hotel, is called check out, to check out.
So we want to check in on July 9th and the receptionist tells us that we have available
a single suite or a double suite.
So these are two different kinds of rooms.
Now a suite is different from a room because it actually means that the space you're going
to use is more than one room, maybe two rooms or three.
So it's a little bit bigger than just a standard room.
It might have a sitting area or a kitchen area.
So that's what a suite is.
Very expensive rooms are suites as well.
They have a sitting area and a kitchen and maybe even an extra bedroom.
So we have a single suite.
That means that we have one of these big rooms that is only for one person.
And the double suite means that two or more people can sleep there.
So single will be one person and double will be two people.
And we also heard similar words with the beds because sometimes the rooms aren't really
clear about what kind of beds they have.
So this person asked, what's the difference between these rooms?
And the hotel employee answered, well, the junior suite has one twin bed.
What's a twin bed?
So a twin bed is basically a bed that's only for one person.
Only one person fits in there.
So it's a single bed basically.
We call it a twin.
It's a standard size.
So everywhere you go, a twin is always for one person.
And if you want to have another person in bed, we have to get a bigger one.
And what's that bigger bed called?
It's called a double bed.
A double bed.
So again, double.
Double room, double bed.
So this means that two people can sleep on the one bed.
So this is important because sometimes you want to book a hotel room and it will be a
double suite, but it will have two twin beds.
So it's a double room.
So it's for two people, but each person has their own small bed.
Two twin beds.
And lastly, the superior double suite not only had a double bed, but also had a mini
bar.
A mini bar.
So you know what a bar is?
It's a place you go to get some alcohol or some drinks, but a mini bar is a little bit
It's a little refrigerator or a little area where you will have snacks and drinks that
you can just basically take freely, but obviously you will have to pay afterwards.
So you can take them when you're staying there, but when you check out, when you leave, you
have to pay for everything you ate or drank.
So a lot of words there on Language Takeaway today.
Let's take a break and listen to the dialogue again.
Madison Suites, how may I help you?
I will be in town next week and would like to know if you have availability.
Okay, ma'am.
Yes, July 9th.
The junior suite is smaller and has one twin bed while the superior suite has a double
bed and mini bar.
I would like to reserve the superior suite.
So now it's time for some phrases.
Let's start with Fluency Builder.
The first phrase in Fluency Builder might seem a little bit strange.
It's I will be in town next week.
I'll be in town.
In what town?
Well, if you say I will be in town, that basically says I will be in this town.
I will be there.
I will be here.
So, I'll be in the town you're in.
This is interesting.
So, when I'm talking to someone, maybe Marco is in Chicago and I'm in New York.
I call and say, hey, Marco, I'll be in town next week.
I'm going to be in Chicago.
I want to have a drink.
That means I'm going to be where?
You're going to be in Chicago.
I'll be in Chicago like Marco is.
I'm not going to talk about where I am now.
This usually means I'm going somewhere else.
So, actually, you can tell your friends that you're going to be in town or sometimes you
have to tell someone you're going to be out of town.
I'll be out of town.
That means I won't be where I am now.
I won't be in New York.
I'll be somewhere else.
I'll be in Chicago.
So, we had one where when we were talking specifically about the hotel and maybe what
is included with our suite, we asked a very important question.
Included in what?
In the price.
So, this is a very common question like you're saying, Marco, but it's not obvious.
So when you ask, is breakfast included?
That means do I have to pay extra for breakfast?
If breakfast is included, I don't have to pay.
If it's not included, that means I have to pay extra for breakfast.
And in this case, breakfast is included, but not just any breakfast.
It's a buffet breakfast.
My favorite kind of breakfast.
So, this is pretty common with hotels.
They will serve a buffet breakfast from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. or whatever.
A buffet means that there's a room with tables and food on the tables.
So, you don't order food.
You just take whatever you want.
So, you can take whatever you want and usually as much as you want.
So, now we know that breakfast is included.
We know what a room is like.
So, we're going to make the reservation and the hotel employee says that he needs our
credit card details to complete the reservation.
Credit card details.
Now, you might be wondering what details.
Credit card details means the specific information on your credit card.
So, it's pretty common when you're making a purchase on the phone or on the internet.
You have to enter.
You have to provide your credit card details.
That means your name, your credit card number, and the expiration date which is when the
card will no longer be useful.
So, it's necessary because obviously you can say, yeah, I'm going to be there tomorrow
and then you don't show up and the hotel loses money.
So, they need to make sure that they have you somehow.
That's their way of protecting themselves.
They want to give you the room but they also don't want to lose money.
So, let's listen to our dialogue one last time and we'll be back to talk a little bit
We have a reservation.
I'm going to be there for seven nights.
So, talking about hotels, I think one of the most important things out of this, well, not
important but also something that you should know is that the minibar is always so expensive.
It is expensive.
Be very careful when you're going into that minibar.
Sometimes it seems like a really good idea.
You're hungry and there are crackers or you want a beer.
But you have to look at the menu because the menu will have the prices and maybe something
that's really cheap in a store outside is really expensive at a hotel.
And I think sometimes, I don't know, sometimes it's even hard to find that little menu so
you don't even know what the prices are.
But you're so thirsty, you just want to have something to drink now and it ends up costing
you $10.
So, be careful.
Anytime you're in a hotel room, expect the prices to be pretty high for the things in
the hotel.
Unless, of course, there's a sign or a piece of paper that says that something is free
or complimentary.
Complimentary water is very common in hotels.
They'll give you two free bottles of water.
So, complimentary means you don't have to pay for it.
But if there's no sign, then expect to pay a lot.
So, if you guys have any questions or any doubts or you want to suggest any other lesson
topic, you can visit us at EnglishPod.com.
We'll hope to see you there.
Ladas, 있을leri teener, tulips and skunk.
My name is Kathryn and we're going to the gym today, right Marco?
Today we're going to go to the gym and we're going to try to lose weight or to get in shape.
So before we start out though, there is a phrasal verb that we should take a look at.
So today in Vocabulary Preview, we're looking at this phrase, to work out or working out.
So when we go to the gym, this is what we do.
We go there to work out, to exercise or to tone up.
This is just a way of saying that I'm going to go somewhere like a gym to exercise myself.
So with that in mind, we're going to go to the gym, we're going to work out and we're
going to learn a lot of words today about what exactly goes on in the gym.
Do you want to go catch a movie tonight?
I have to go to the gym.
You can go tomorrow.
Just skip it today.
It's not as if you're going to get in trouble.
Actually, I will.
I'm working out with a personal trainer that gets on my case if I don't go.
I like it because it makes me feel more obligated to go and get healthy.
That's cool.
Does your personal trainer basically teach you how to work out?
He makes a workout plan depending on the areas I want to work on or the muscles I want to
build.
Like for example, in order to get better muscle tone in my abs, pecs and biceps, he makes
me work out with free weights.
Then for my quads, calves and hamstrings, I do leg lifts or squats.
Sounds like you're really getting into shape.
So, now we're back.
First of all, in today's dialogue, we heard a lot about this person called a personal
trainer.
What does a personal trainer do, Marco?
So basically, you have a person that is your coach, the person that guides you and teaches
you how to work out or what you should do.
So, personal means it's just for me.
This person is only helping me.
A trainer is someone who, like you say, gives me guidance.
So personal trainer is someone who will work with me every day or maybe one time a week
to really get the most out of my workout.
So that is a personal trainer.
And as we said, he's going to help us to build muscle.
We want to build muscle when we go to the gym.
So, this is an interesting one because the verb is not to grow or to make.
The verb is to build.
So, I have muscles, but I want my muscles to get bigger.
So I go to build muscles at the gym.
You might even hear this phrase, a bodybuilder.
So this idea that you make them.
So you don't get muscle.
You don't create muscle.
You build muscle.
And alongside with muscles, not only do you get them big, but you also get muscle tone.
So muscle tone basically means definition.
So maybe before you start to work out, your body is very soft.
You can't see the muscles.
Well, when you start to see those muscles, you see the lines in your body.
Your skin gets tighter, not so soft.
That's called muscle tone.
So then you can see the muscles.
That's muscle tone.
And now the muscles that we most commonly go to the gym to work out, we're going to
name really quickly and we're going to see where they are.
So the first one that we mentioned were abs.
This is an important one, especially if you want to go to the beach.
The abs are located on your stomach.
So you see those kind of rectangles, those squares on your stomach.
Those are the abs.
And now for guys also, we want to work out our pecs or our pectoral muscles.
So those are on your chest, below your neck, but above your stomach.
And another important one on your arm, we have our biceps.
Men usually like to show these off, or at least boys do.
These are on your arms.
So you know when you make that L shape with your arm and you squeeze like Popeye?
Those are your biceps.
And now, obviously going down towards our legs now, we have our quad muscles, our quads.
So those are on the top part of your legs, right Marco?
In front.
So like on the top of your thigh.
And now right behind the back part of your leg, you have your hamstrings.
Hamstring.
Now you hear about this one a lot because people injure their hamstrings pretty easily
in football or in running.
Sometimes if you're running and you didn't stretch, your muscles are not warm, you can
pull a hamstring.
So that hamstring is an important one.
We have one more.
We have our calves and these are in the bottom, right above our feet.
So I don't have any muscles except for this one because I ride my bike.
And when you ride your bike, this gets big.
So your calves are that part of your leg above your foot, but below your knee in the back.
The back part.
So all of these muscles, some of the most common ones that we work out.
So now let's move on to some important phrases on Fluency Builder.
Like, for example, in order to get better muscle tone in my abs, pecs, and biceps, he
makes me work out with free weights.
Then for my quads, calves, and hamstrings, I do leg lifts or squats.
So the beginning of the dialogue, the friends were trying to decide what to do.
And one friend said, do you want to go catch a movie?
So to catch a movie.
Do you want to go catch a movie?
It sounds funny because catch means to hold something in your hands after someone throws
So throw and catch.
But here, it doesn't mean to actually hold something in your hands.
It means do you want to go see a movie?
So it's a very informal, colloquial way of saying, hey, do you want to go to the movies?
Do you want to go see a movie?
Maybe not like a serious date or something, just for fun.
Let's go catch a movie.
So obviously we can't go to the movies because we got to go to the gym.
And we have to go to the gym because our personal trainer will get on our case.
The personal trainer will get on my case if I don't go.
So someone will get on my case if I don't do this.
So this is an interesting way of saying, my personal trainer will criticize me or will
be angry with me if I don't do this.
So you can use it with, for example, your parents.
Your parents are always getting on your case because you don't clean your room.
My mom gets on my case when I don't tell her where I'm going when I go out.
So that means to criticize, to give you a hard time, to get angry at you or even maybe
yell at you.
But you can change the pronoun.
So he gets on my case, but I can get on your case.
So remember that someone gets on someone else's case.
That's where the person goes.
And of course, if you want to tell that person to stop bothering you, you just say, get off
my case.
So he's on her case.
Get off my case.
And now to finish things off, the whole reason why we're going to the gym is because we want
to get in shape.
Great phrase here to get in shape.
This is something a lot of people like to do in the new year.
So they say, okay, it's a new year.
I want a new body.
I'm going to get in shape.
That means I will lose weight, build some muscle and start to feel good.
So we want to get in shape.
Seems like you're really getting into shape.
Going to the gym, getting a personal trainer, what do you think?
Is it a good idea or a bad idea?
I think for some people who have a hard time getting motivated, so people who don't like
to go to the gym, it's a great idea because having another person push you can really
help.
I think for other people who are already pushing themselves, it's not as helpful.
I think also if you just start out going to the gym, I think you should get a personal
trainer for the first couple of weeks because you really have to understand and learn what
you're doing and the purpose of that exercise and figure out how many sets, how many repetitions.
This is very important because some people just go and they overwork it.
They do and they don't know how to use the machines or the weights.
You can actually harm yourself.
You can pull a hamstring or something if you don't know what you're doing.
For people who've never learned how to exercise, maybe it's a good idea like you say.
Actually gyms as well, very popular nowadays, especially with the holidays passing.
People gain some holiday weight.
You got to go back to the gym to lose that weight.
Do you go to the gym?
If so, what parts of your body do you like to focus on?
My name is Catherine and we're going to be purchasing some wine today, right Marco?
Today we're going to go to the shop and we're going to try to look for some wine that will
go well with the type of food that we're having.
So we're going to be learning a lot of specific terms.
This is an advanced lesson.
So we expect that most of the basics you already know, but some of these more difficult words
and phrases are going to be our focus.
Welcome to Wine World.
Let me know if I can help you out at all.
I could really use some help.
I'm going over to my boss's house for dinner tonight and I don't know what kind of wine
I should bring.
Do you know what kind of food will be served?
Well, his wife is Japanese.
He said she makes really good sushi.
That's a bit of a challenge.
Sushi is notoriously difficult to pair with wine.
It'll have to be a white wine, of course.
Wouldn't a red wine go well with sushi?
Sushi is a very delicately flavored food and red wine would be a jarring contrast.
You need a white wine which has more subtle flavors to complement the fish.
So I should get a bottle of Chardonnay.
That's a white wine, right?
Yes, Chardonnay is a white wine, but I'm not sure it'd be your best bet.
Chardonnay is one of the more full-bodied whites and tends to be a bit oaky.
I'd suggest you go for something brighter like this Sauvignon Blanc from New Zealand.
Oh, the Sauvignon Blanc?
That's another varietal or type of grape, just like Chardonnay.
The label says it's got attractive citrus and grassy aromas that give way to crisp mineral
flavors and a bone-dry finish.
Serve chilled.
Oh no, how long will it take to chill the wine?
I'm on my way to dinner now.
Oh, it's okay, don't worry.
We'll just choose a wine from the cooler.
We don't have quite as extensive a selection over here, but this Rhone Valley White would
be lovely.
All right, what varietal is that?
Well, this is a French wine, so they don't always specify the varietal on the label.
The French believe that the soil a grape is grown in is one of the most important factors
in the final flavor of the wine.
This wine is probably a blend of a few different types of grapes, mostly Viognier, I'd guess.
And you think this is a good wine?
Yes, this is one of our best sellers.
It's not quite as dry as the Sauvignon Blanc we were looking at earlier, which means it's
more approachable.
It's light and crisp with a bit of a vanilla aroma.
Perfect, I'll take it.
So now we're talking about wines, and one of the first things that really pop up is
when we're talking about sushi and how we're trying to get a wine to go well with sushi.
All right, so the phrase here was to pair with wine.
So sushi is notoriously difficult to pair with wine.
All right, so when you talk about wine, you talk about pairing it with food, P-A-I-R,
to pair.
So for example, if you're having meat or poultry or chicken, you try to pair it with a wine
so basically that the flavors go well together.
So commonly we say that red wine pairs well with red meat, or fish and white wine pair
well together.
So you're pairing these two things means you're using them in the same meal.
So when we're talking about pairing a wine with sushi, the girl said, well, what about
red wine?
Wouldn't that pair well with sushi?
And the attendant said, no, the red wine would be a jarring contrast.
So first of all, we have this word jarring.
Something is jarring if it's loud, shocking, abrasive, difficult, annoying.
So something that's jarring is loud.
And a contrast is something that shows the differences in something.
So when we're saying that it would be a jarring contrast to have sushi with red wine, we're
saying that they're just too different.
Sushi is too different from the red wine flavor, so they wouldn't go well together.
And since jarring means it's a bad thing, we think the flavor will be wrong.
It'll be bad.
So we need to look for something else.
And the salesperson suggested a wine that has more subtle flavors, white wine.
So this word subtle is actually spelled S-U-B-T-L-E, but the B is silent.
So we say subtle.
And it's actually great because it's kind of like the opposite of jarring.
Something that's not jarring is subtle.
So it's a little bit more, I don't know, like relaxed, like not as loud.
It's not obvious.
You have to really think about it and look for it.
Something that's subtle is not obvious.
And now we're talking about one specific type of white wine.
We have a Chardonnay.
So we know that there are many, many different kinds of wine out there, but there are some
very common ones.
And Chardonnay is one of those.
I think Chardonnay tends to be a bit fruitier.
Australia has some famous Chardonnays.
California has some famous Chardonnays.
Just remember that Chardonnay is a kind of white wine.
And one of the ways that they used it to describe Chardonnay is that it's one of the more
full-bodied whites.
So whites here, we're talking about white wines, but something that's full-bodied.
So if a wine is full-bodied, it means that it has a little bit of a stronger flavor,
like it's a more complete flavor.
It's not as subtle.
So we know that white wines are a bit more subtle than red wines in this case, but within
white wines, you can have one that's very full-bodied.
So this is a great phrase for describing wine.
We don't really talk about other things being full-bodied, but wine can be full-bodied if
it really has what you say, Marco, this big full taste, a bright taste.
And actually the sales attendant suggested that, well, since the Chardonnay is too or
is more full-bodied, then he would recommend maybe a Sauvignon Blanc.
So Sauvignon Blanc.
Blanc is the French word for white, but we use this all the time in English.
Sauvignon Blanc being the kind of wine.
Again, it's a white wine.
And it's a bit brighter than the Chardonnay.
That's what the salesperson said.
And when we're talking about wines, either red wines or white wines, the way to describe
it or the different varieties is actually a varietal of the wines or the type of grape.
So varietal.
So you think of variety, varietal.
Varietal is a specific wine word that we use to describe the kind of grape that go into
a wine.
So we know wine generally comes from grapes.
They're crushed down.
And then the alcohol comes from all the sugars.
But each different kind of grape has a different flavor.
And that's the varietal, the kind of grape.
So just think of it as the variety of the wines that you have.
And it's a word used specifically for wines.
And well, when the attendant kept talking about the wines and the types of wines they
have there, he mentioned that they have a small selection in the refrigerator or in
the cooler.
So selection in this case means what the store has to offer.
It means all the wines that they sell.
So maybe if you have an extensive selection, it means you have many, many, many different
kinds to choose from.
But if you don't have an extensive selection, you have very few wines, that means that you
have fewer things to sell.
So a wide selection of wines or a small selection of wines.
And lastly, talking about varietals, we also have what we call a blend, a blend of a few
different types of grapes.
So you can have blends of different things.
But in terms of wine, we're talking about using different grapes together to make one
wine.
So this is something that's pretty common and it's a way to achieve different flavors.
So a blend.
You also talk about it in, I think, whiskeys.
You have blended whiskeys.
You can have a single malt, which is one grain in one barrel, or you can have a blend, which
would be different grains fermented in different barrels mixed together later.
So a lot of great stuff here all about wines.
Why wouldn't a red wine go well with sushi?
Oh, it's okay.
All right, so obviously there are a lot more varietals out there.
We only talked about two types of wines.
We had a Chardonnay and a Sauvignon Blanc.
And the only wines we talked about were white wines.
Of course, there's a whole world of red wines out there.
And then between red and white, you have rosé, which are those pink wines.
Those pink wines, yeah.
But actually, it's interesting because the culture of drinking wine is not as extensive
as we think it is.
In many parts of the world, they're not really used to drinking wine.
But then you go to places like France and Italy and South America, like Argentina, Chile,
and you experience these different cultures of wine that are quite, I think, quite interesting
because they're so different.
And it's become even healthy to drink wine.
Medical tests show that if you have one glass of wine with dinner every day, it reduces
your chances of heart disease.
There's some special ingredient.
I'm not sure what it is, but obviously you don't want to drink too much.
But if you have a little bit, it's good for your heart.
I think red wine, they say, is good for your heart.
So it's interesting, but obviously, maybe in your countries, you don't drink wine or
maybe you have a particular type of wine.
Like in China, they have, isn't it plum wine or rice wine?
Rice wine in China and plum wine, I think, in Japan.
So maybe you have a specific type of wine that you want to let us know about.
And of course, if you have any questions or comments, we're always there.
Check us out at EnglishPod.com.
We'll see you again.
And today we're doing something that makes a lot of people very nervous when they come
to America.
Today we are arriving to the airport, but before we can leave, we need to pass through
customs and immigration.
Customs and immigration.
So anyone who comes into the United States, American, not American, doesn't matter, you
have to go through this gate.
So let's learn about some of these phrases and questions in today's dialogue.
Passport and arrival card, please.
Where are you coming from?
China.
Is this your country of birth or residence?
I just worked there.
What is the purpose of your visit to the United States?
I'm here on vacation.
How long do you plan to stay in the United States?
Almost three weeks.
Sir, you didn't fill out the information on your arrival card of where you'll be staying.
Oh, I'm sorry, but there are a couple of different places I will travel to within the United
States, so I wasn't sure what to put.
You must specify an address on the place where you will spend most of your time.
Do you have enough means to support yourself while you're here?
Yes, I have some travelers checks and two credit cards.
Do you have anything to declare?
I only have my clothes and camera.
Welcome to the United States.
Enjoy your visit.
So now let's take a look at some of that language takeaway.
The first thing we have to learn about is the arrival card.
So good afternoon, passport and arrival card, please.
That's the first line of the dialogue.
So the arrival card, usually you will get on the airplane before you land, and basically
you just have to put your name, your passport number, where you're from, and basic information
like this that you must give to the immigration officer.
So what is the opposite of arrival card?
What do you fill out when you leave America?
Some countries require you to fill out a departure card.
So some countries, not all, but you'll usually get an arrival card, which means that you
have to give your name and basic information.
So we are talking to the immigration officer, and he asks, is this your country of birth
or residence?
All right, let's break that down.
Country of birth.
So birth, birthday, that makes me think of where I was born.
So what country were you born in?
That's another way to ask this question.
So since we said we are coming from China, the immigration officer wants to know if we
are Chinese or if we simply live there, and that's why he says or residence.
So residence, it's a noun, it's a thing.
My country of residence is the place where I live.
So I'm American, but maybe my country of residence is France because I live in France.
So it's different from your country of birth.
Now moving on, when the immigration officer was asking us about money, we said that we
have some traveler's checks and two credit cards.
All right, so credit cards are pretty clear, but what exactly are traveler's checks and
how are they different from normal checks?
So traveler's checks are kind of a convenient way to carry money because you have these
little pieces of paper that have a certain amount on them.
So for example, $500 each, and if you lose it, it's not a problem because no one can
exchange those checks for cash unless it's you.
All right, so my traveler's check, I buy these from the bank.
They have my name on them, my passport number on them, and to spend them as money, I need
to show my passport or proof of identification or proof of identity.
So basically, if someone steals my traveler's checks, if I lose my traveler's checks, I
don't have to worry because no one else can spend them but me.
They were very, very popular back before credit cards were so popular.
Now you don't really see too many traveler's checks, but it's still convenient.
All right, so a lot of language there.
Yes, I have some traveler's checks and two credit cards.
So now let's take a look at some of those key questions that the immigration officer
asks us on Fluency Builder.
All right, this first sentence, this first question is actually something that a lot
of learners of English have a hard time with.
So the immigration officer is sitting there at his desk and you are arriving on an airplane.
So what he wants to know is what country are you arriving from?
So if I am on a flight from France to America, I say I'm arriving from France.
I'm coming from France.
But here's a big thing.
What if he says, where are you from?
Now he's asking you for your nationality.
So then you wouldn't say France because you're not French.
I'm not French.
I'm American.
So I'd say I am American, but I'm coming from France.
So this is a very typical question that English learners confuse because as you can see, it's
very, very similar, but you just have one word that you add on and it completely changes
the question.
So when the immigration officer asks you, where are you coming from?
You tell them what country you got on the plane.
So where did you leave to come to America?
Did you leave from France, China, Ghana?
So that's the answer to that question.
Most of the time, immigration officers will never ask you where you are from because they
will see your passport.
They know.
Now, once we give them our passport, we tell them that we just work in China.
We're not Chinese.
He asks, what is the purpose of your visit to the United States?
What's the purpose of your visit?
Now purpose means goal or aim.
So there are a couple of standard answers to this question, but basically the immigration
officer wants to know, why are you in America?
Why are you coming here?
So you have, as Catherine says, a couple of different ways of answering that.
We're saying here that we are here on vacation.
Tourism.
Business.
Seeing family.
These are all acceptable answers.
So now that we've told the officer all of this information, we actually forgot to fill
out our address on our arrival card.
So he says that we must specify an address.
So to specify, this is a verb.
It means to indicate or write down or identify because right now there is no address where
we're going to stay.
So to specify means to basically to tell someone where it is, to be exact.
So you need to specify an address of where you will be during the time you're in the
It could be a hotel, any place.
But it can't be like Chicago.
No, it can't be a city.
It's got to be an address.
So 10 South Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Now we told the immigration officer where we're going to be and he asks a very important
question, also very, very common.
Do you have enough means to support yourself while you are here?
So means in this instance means resources or money.
So do you have enough money to pay for your housing, your food?
That's the question.
So means to support yourself.
That means can you pay for yourself?
Who's paying for this trip?
So this is why we say, yeah, we have some traveler's checks and a couple of credit cards.
And lastly, we also need to answer if we have anything to declare.
But what does this mean?
To declare what?
To declare at customs.
But we don't normally ask to declare at customs.
We just say, do you have anything to declare?
This is because normally when we travel to other countries, there are special taxes for
certain goods.
For example, if I want to come to America and I have three bottles of wine, I have to
give one away because I'm only allowed to bring in two bottles.
So I have to declare two bottles of wine or money.
I'm only allowed to bring $10,000.
If I bring $15,000, I have to write that down and say, I have this extra money and then
I pay tax.
So basically they will ask you, what are you bringing to America?
And if there are special things like money or things you will sell or alcohol, cigarettes,
you have to declare these.
You have to explain what you're carrying.
So this is a very important question.
Also most of the time, obviously if you're on tourism, you don't have much to declare,
but maybe like if Catherine says, maybe you are going to buy a house in the United States
and you have $20,000 in your luggage, then you need to tell them that.
So that's called declaring, to declare at customs.
So let's take a break and listen to our dialogue one last time.
So when you're arriving to immigration, obviously all these questions are very, very common.
You will be asked.
But when you're arriving there, there are actually two different sections that you have
to go to, right?
There's two different lines.
Maybe many lines, but they'll have a sign on top.
One says US passports or US passport holders, and that means the line for Americans coming
home to America.
But for most people who are traveling to America, they're foreigners, they have to go to the
other line.
So that's non-US passport holders.
Now remember that you don't really have to get nervous when you're talking to the immigration
officer.
You have to take it easy and just try to answer the questions.
Most of them will speak a couple of words in many popular languages like Chinese or
Spanish or Arabic.
Because obviously some people that go on holiday to the United States, maybe they don't speak
So there's nothing to be worried about.
These people are there to make sure that America is safe.
They want to check the bags.
They want to know who's coming into the country.
And they're just doing their job being basically policing the borders.
But it's pretty simple.
The most annoying part of customs for me is waiting in line.
Yeah, you have so many people arrive at the same time that you can wait in line maybe
an hour sometimes.
So again, just be honest.
And I think people will try to understand you if you're having a hard time.
So if you have any questions or comments, you can find us at EnglishPod.com.
My name is Catherine and today we're going to a very special place, Marco, a place where
men and women alike, but usually women are associated with it.
And where these women like to go.
What is this place we're going to?
Today we are going to a beauty spa.
So let's check that out in today's vocabulary preview.
So this place, a beauty spa, it's interesting because it's not just a normal spa.
It's a particular spa where you get treated for some things.
So a beauty spa is a place where you go to feel good.
So women and men like to have their nails and their faces and their skin taken care
Maybe their makeup and hair as well.
So it's not just a place where you maybe go for a massage, but you get a lot of other
services that make your skin nice, make you look and feel good.
So that's where we're going today.
So beauty spa, and we're going to talk about all the different things that you can do there.
You want to go get a facial with me today?
Only girls do that.
Guys also get facials, manicures and pedicures.
There's nothing wrong with looking after your skin and looking good.
So what do they do to you at your beauty spa?
Well, first they exfoliate my face, getting rid of all the dead skin.
Then I get a face mask with nutrients that keep my skin healthy and young.
Afterwards, they apply some moisturizer and you leave feeling like a million bucks.
That doesn't really sound like something I would be interested in.
In any case, I just wash my face every night and use sunscreen during the day.
Well, you should come with me one day.
I'm sure you'll love it.
Uh, no.
Got a lot of great phrases and words in language takeaway today.
The first one though is from the very first line of dialogue.
We are asking our friend if he wants to go with us to go get a facial.
Now what exactly does it mean to get a facial?
All right, a facial here is a thing, in this case, a service that we would pay for.
And basically a facial is just a skincare treatment or a treatment for your face.
So maybe you'll get some cream and cleansing and, uh, you know, in the advertisements you
often see someone getting a facial with like cucumbers on their eyes.
And so it's just a way to make your skin feel really good.
Particularly on your face.
Your face.
And the verb here is to get.
So I'm going to get a facial or I got a facial yesterday.
Now, um, we, apart from getting a facial, getting a special treatment on your face,
you can also get a manicure and a pedicure.
So manicure, pedicure, these we're going to keep together because they're very similar,
but they're a little bit different.
Manny, manicure, Manny, that means something to do with the hands.
So manicure is actually when you have your fingernails kind of cleaned and taken care
of and then they will apply some paint.
So nail polish.
So basically having your nails treated and then colored.
And then pedicure I imagine is the same thing, but for your feet.
Pedi refers to feet.
So pedicure is the same treatment, the same service, but for your toes.
And in this case you'd have very, you know, nice nail polish on your toes.
Now, going back to skin treatment, because well, manicure and pedicure for your fingernails
and for your hands and feet, we are talking about getting your face exfoliated or he says,
well, first they exfoliate my face.
So exfoliate, you think exfoliate means taking something away.
In this case to exfoliate means to take the dead skin away.
And sometimes this can be a little bit painful because you think at first you have some dry
skin, some dead skin, they have to take it away.
They have to use something rough.
You can do it on your feet as well.
But when they exfoliate your face, they use some kind of cleanser or some kind of maybe
sponge to clear the dead skin.
And then afterwards you have the fresh new skin and it's very smooth and nice looking.
So that's what it means to exfoliate the skin.
It can be on your face, your feet, pretty much anywhere in your body.
And lastly, we also are just using sunscreen during the day to protect our skin and to
keep it healthy.
So sunscreen is a kind of cream.
Do you use sunscreen, Marco?
No, you don't have to.
Well, I often use sunscreen because I'm very, very pale.
And so when I go in the sun, maybe at the beach, it's very easy for me to burn my skin
to turn red.
And so sunscreen helps me protect my skin.
So that's exactly what it does.
Sunscreen is a specific type of lotion that you put on your skin and it prevents you from
getting sunburns or from darkening your skin.
So those are the words we have relating to skincare and some of these services at the
beauty spa.
But we've got some more phrases for you.
So let's first listen to our dialogue again and we'll be back in a moment.
So what should they do to you at your beauty spa?
So now it's time for some fluency builder.
Let's check out three key phrases.
So we've got this first phrase here, not at all.
So one person says only girls go to the beauty spa and what does the other person say?
He says, no, not at all.
So basically he's responding by saying, no, that's not true.
Now you could have said no, but why do you say not at all?
You can say no, but no is almost rude.
Not at all is a way to say, actually in reality, this is different.
So it's a, it's a more polite way of disagreeing with what the person just said.
So you can say no, not at all.
I guess you can say both, right?
Not at all or together.
You could say, um, women don't like to watch football and you can say, oh, not at all.
You could say only men like to watch football.
And then if I disagree or you say, actually, I can say, no, not at all.
Actually girls like to watch football as well.
So now continuing on with the skincare topic, we saw this interesting verb, to apply some
moisturizer.
So the verb here is to apply something on your skin.
So the verb to apply means to put on, okay.
Or to use.
And this is a verb we often use with beauty care products, like apply the shampoo to your
head or apply some fingernail polish.
Means that you're going to, yeah, to put it on yourself.
So when we say apply some moisturizer is to use moisturizer.
Yeah, to put it on your skin.
Like I apply my makeup, that means I put the makeup on my skin.
So in this case, moisturizer is a great cream that we use when our skin is dry and we want
it to be more healthy.
We want it to be less dry and we add this.
And lastly, after you exfoliate, you apply moisturizer, you do everything.
He says that you leave the beauty salon feeling like a million bucks.
To feel like a million bucks.
This is a phrase that we often use to say you feel wonderful.
Feel great.
You feel really good.
And so this is the main reason to go to the beauty spa, right Marco?
So you go there because you want to feel like a million bucks.
So you feel very, very, very good.
Sometimes when I buy a new outfit and I try it on, I'm really excited.
I say, Oh, I feel like a million bucks.
So I guess the other form of this word will actually be, you look like a million bucks.
Someone can look like a million bucks.
So I see my friend coming from the beauty spa and I say, wow, you look like a million
bucks.
So let's listen to our dialogue one last time.
Let's review everything and we'll be back in a bit.
So facials, this sort of thing is commonly mostly associated with women.
But as we saw in the dialogue, more and more men are actually taking care of their skin
and their appearance.
This might have been traditionally a woman's event, going to the spa, having a girl's day
at the spa.
You're right, Marco.
A lot of men like to do this.
Just because you get a manicure doesn't mean you have to have pink fingernails.
You can actually just have your nails taken care of and cleaned and cut and your cuticles
taken care of.
So it feels really nice.
Actually, it's a common new trend that we've even heard in the news about.
And the term that men are labeled with when they take excessive care of their skin and
their appearance, they say they're metrosexuals.
Metrosexual.
Now, this is a man who, like you say, likes to dress nicely, takes care of his hair, has
nice skin, someone who really takes care of their body.
And it's different from being a homosexual, for example, where maybe that's a stereotype
that we have, where we say, oh, well, some people who are homosexual like to dress very
well and take care of their skin.
Metrosexual people, men, are straight.
They're not gay.
But they still like to do these things, to go to the spa or to take care of their appearances.
So it's a very interesting topic, specifically nowadays, where this type of thing is more
and more common.
And yet still in many places and cultures, it's very much taboo.
Obviously, being manly man associated with that is, you know, you don't really take care
of your appearance.
You know, you wake up and you still look kind of messy and half asleep or, you know, guy
has scars and beards and stuff.
So you don't really associate it much.
But it's very interesting to see these types of different cultural aspects.
So we would like to know if in your culture, your country, this is a common practice.
Is it acceptable or is it very, very rare?
And if you go to the beauty spa, whether you're a man or a woman, what's your favorite service?
Do you like the facials?
Do you like the pedicures?
And today we have a very advanced lesson for you all about medicine.
Today we're going to take a look at what is very widely known as Chinese traditional medicine.
So a very interesting topic in general.
And for people who use this, they might call it TCM, traditional Chinese medicine.
So remember that there's that acronym as well.
But let's take a listen to today's dialogue and when we come back, we'll be discussing
some of the important words and phrases in the dialogue.
I have a headache.
These past few days I've been living off painkillers.
Man, I feel like my head is going to explode.
You should get acupuncture treatment.
My mom was always having headache issues and it was acupuncture that cured her.
The results are too slow.
On top of that, just the thought of smoking needles poking into my flesh frightens me.
They don't just randomly stick you.
They find your pressure points.
The heat allows the body to immediately respond to the treatment, restoring the body's qi.
But I get scared the moment I see a needle.
How could I stand having needles in my body for hours on end?
The needles are very thin.
And as long as the doctor's technique is good and the patient himself is relaxed, it won't
hurt.
On the contrary, it will actually alleviate pain.
Now there are high-tech needles that are micro-thin.
They don't hurt at all.
However, if you are really scared of acupuncture, scraping or cupping are also options.
Scraping is too terrifying.
When they finish scraping, your body is all red as if you were just tortured.
Cupping is the same.
Your body ends up with red circles all over it.
It looks like someone beat you up.
This only signifies that the toxins have left the body.
Actually, there's only discomfort during the treatment process.
Once it's over, you'll feel very comfortable.
Chinese medicine is strange.
The patients are already ill and then the doctor makes them suffer more.
This is the only way to get at the problem.
Anyway, if you want to relieve the pain, you are just going to have to be tough and do
I don't want to inflict any more pain on myself.
In a little while, I'll go and buy some more painkillers and take a nap.
So now obviously we are talking about what is commonly known as alternative medicine
because we know that traditional medicine nowadays is doctors, you have antibiotics,
that sort of thing.
And here you're actually using these techniques and these different ways of curing someone.
So the first thing that comes to mind here is acupuncture.
So acupuncture is usually considered a part of Chinese medicine and it's a kind of medicine
that uses needles in different parts of the body.
So it might look really scary because you see people lying on their stomachs with needles
coming out of their backs.
And the places where they put the needles in, they're called pressure points, right?
And pressure points are things that we talk about with massages as well.
So a good masseuse, a person who does a massage, will also look for these pressure points,
which are key points on the body.
And in acupuncture, they'll put these needles into those points as well because each point
relates to a different part of the body, like the liver or the kidneys.
So it's actually very interesting, the fact that by sticking a needle in one of these
pressure points, they are curing or alleviating the pain of maybe, like you say, your kidney
or your liver or something like this.
This is a really great word though, Marco, the word that you just used, to alleviate
pain.
Now to alleviate pain means to make the pain go away.
So we heard the opposite of that as well, also at the very end of today's dialogue.
So the opposite of alleviate would be to inflict pain.
This is to do pain to yourself or to someone else.
To cause pain.
So to alleviate is to take it away and to inflict is to cause.
So now acupuncture is very popular.
Sticking needles in people's pressure points, it does seem like it would hurt, but there
are other ones that maybe are not as widely known.
The next one that we're going to talk about is scraping.
Scraping.
So to scrape is a verb and you can scrape the bottom of your plate with your spoon or
you can scrape on, you know, sometimes cats like to scrape on the furniture.
They use their claws and make that sound.
But in this case, scraping is a little bit more maybe painful sounding.
What do they do in scraping?
So basically it's the same thing.
They use different tools and they scrape your body.
They just, I don't know, basically what I understand from it is that they are extracting
the illness by taking it out of your skin.
So they use what looks like a small knife or like a flat kind of sharp blade.
And they actually kind of take off the top layer of your skin.
They scrape it away.
It's very, very painful from what I've heard.
I've never done it myself, but as we see in the dialogue, it does look very, it looks
like you've been hit or treated poorly at the prison or something because your skin
is red and almost bleeding.
And another one that actually looks quite painful when you see someone after they've
done it is called cupping.
Now, this one you might have seen even in the last Karate Kid movie.
Basically it's a little round bulb or a little round glass cup and the doctor, the Chinese
doctor will light a piece of cotton and will put the cup over it and the suction effect
that by putting out the fire and it sucks up all the oxygen and everything causes the
cup to suck onto your skin really, really tight.
You put it on your skin so it creates a vacuum, right?
There's no air coming in.
And that way the cup that there's no air in has to pull out all those chemicals and those
toxins and that oil from your skin and take it away.
So it's actually pulling at your skin.
And well, that's the thing with the vacuum effect is so great and pulling it out with
such force that you're actually left with a big purple or red circle on your skin from
I guess the blood clot type thing that is caused by it.
So you will see a person's back maybe and they have bruises.
Bruises.
Yeah, like six, seven, ten bruises on their backs.
Although I am told that even though it's very painful and it looks even more painful, the
effect is that it does help your circulation.
It helps the blood in your body move around more freely.
Yeah, I've heard the same thing.
And even though that it looks painful and it may be painful while they're doing it,
I've heard that after it's done, even though it looks like it should hurt, it looks like
a bruise, it doesn't hurt like a bruise.
So people don't actually say, oh, you know, don't touch my back.
It really hurts.
It doesn't really seem that way.
Well, and there's an interesting line in the dialogue that is related to this.
It's about scraping actually, but you can say it about cupping as well.
Your body is all red as if you were just tortured.
Now as if you were tortured or we could say as if you were beaten up.
And in this case, was the person tortured?
It's basically a relation or making that relation that your skin is so, let's say bloody that
it looks as if you were tortured.
So it seems like somebody hit you with a whip or something.
It looks like you were tortured, but you weren't.
So as if is a way for us to make a comparison or an analogy.
I think you can see it in maybe books, you know, so maybe you would describe a guy saying,
oh, he was really angry as if he had rabies.
Yeah, it's as if he had rabies like he doesn't, but he's acting like he does.
Or maybe you run into the kitchen and eat so much food as if you hadn't eaten in days.
So you have obviously, but you're acting like someone who is starving.
So yeah, that is an interesting way to describe or to make a connection between two different
And well, Chinese traditional medicine as well, a very interesting and historical form
of treating illnesses.
Now I'm told that it does work, even though some people are very skeptical about it.
And I don't think it's accepted in the international medical field.
Well, I think that there's a Western medicine which has its benefits.
You know, you have penicillin and all of these different antibiotics to help us combat different
diseases and bacteria.
But also traditional Chinese medicine kind of helps other things.
I think there is a spirituality, this idea that we have a chi, there are positive and
negative forces in our bodies, and sometimes trauma or big events will make that chi kind
of, well, it'll affect it in a bad way.
So the chi is unbalanced.
And so a lot of this is about rebalancing your system.
And if you believe that and you really understand that there are certain forces inside your
body, then I'm sure this kind of medicine has a positive effect on you.
I believe that it does have its ups and downs.
I was very skeptical about it until once, actually, I had a very, very bad headache
and somebody took and pushed a pressure point on my finger, on my thumb for about maybe
one or two minutes and the headache was gone.
So I was very much amazed.
But at the same time, when people are treated maybe for, you know, maybe they can conceive
a baby and they're doing these rituals or giving them ginger or different roots to drink
and eat and stuff.
I don't know if that really does help or what evidence there is that it actually does work.
Well, I think that's something that also is important to look at on an individual basis.
I don't think even some Western medicines help all the time if you're not in a place
where you believe that it will work.
But the interesting aspect of it is, of course, so many years ago, we're talking about hundreds
or thousands of years ago, when there was no Western medicine and then people were being
cured and treated by these techniques, which actually worked.
So there is a very interesting aspect that maybe even Western medicine can learn from
traditional medicine like this.
So it's an interesting topic, Oriental medicine, Western medicine, but we want to know what
you think about it.
We also want to know in your home country, do you have a traditional kind of medicine
or any medical alternatives to Western medicine?
This is Mike with modern medicine.
My name is Catherine and we're going to a family party today, right Marco?
We're going to go see our family, our relatives and we're going to talk about all the different
family members that you can have.
So, there are some very, very specific family members that sometimes you don't really know
the names of.
So, we're not talking about mother, father, brother, sister.
We're talking about what we call in English extended family.
So, that means not just the people you live with but also people you're related to who
are maybe in different parts of your family.
So, let's listen to our dialogue and we'll be back in a bit.
What are you doing this weekend?
My brother-in-law is having a small get-together at his house and he invited me.
Is it a family thing or just friends?
A bit of both.
Some cousins, aunts and uncles will be there but also some friends from the neighborhood.
Is your great-uncle Rick going to be there?
He is really funny.
Yeah, he's going to be there with his stepson and his ex-wife.
You mean your sister?
No, Rick is actually my great-uncle so he's my grandmother's brother.
You lost me.
I'll explain later.
Alright, so now let's talk about these family members on Language Takeaway.
So, Marco, we've got four family members to talk about today.
And the first one is brother-in-law.
Right, so we have the word brother-in-law.
So, basically this person is married to your sister.
So, I have a brother, I have a sister.
But when these people marry, they marry someone who I'm not related to by blood.
We call them in-laws, so brother-in-law, sister-in-law.
Right, so that's exactly it.
The key there is that when it has the ending in-law, it means that you're not related to them by blood.
It's your extended family because of marriage.
So, I have a younger brother.
When he gets married, I will have a sister-in-law.
And it applies to, for example, father-in-law.
That would be your husband's dad or mother-in-law would be your husband's mother.
Yeah, so these are all related to you by marriage.
All right, so now moving on to the next type of extended family member that we have is a stepson.
Your uncle has a stepson.
So, a stepson.
Now, this can get very confusing.
Let's take a simple, simple family.
We have two people and they're married.
And then they get divorced, so they split up.
And now maybe they had some kids.
The wife has kids, and she gets married to someone else.
So, her new husband calls her son his stepson.
Because it's not his son.
It's another man's son.
But they're still related by marriage.
So, when your new husband or your new wife has kids from another marriage, they're called stepson, stepdaughter.
So, it's the same thing as if my mother got divorced and she remarried.
She has a new husband.
That man would be my stepfather.
All right, so these are all family members.
When you hear the word step, family members that we have because of divorce.
So, stepson, stepdaughter, stepfather, stepmother.
All right, and now, again, related to the whole divorce thing, the person that you get divorced to is called an ex-wife or an ex-husband.
All right, so ex, like ex-girlfriend or ex-boyfriend means previous.
So, my ex-wife is someone I was married to before or in the case of a woman, my ex-husband was someone I was married to before, but we got divorced.
So, we're not married now.
So, it only applies to husband and wife, right?
You don't say my ex-children or my ex-mother-in-law.
Well, because your children are always your children.
If you talk about your ex-wife's parents, you just say my ex-wife's father or my ex-wife's mother because there's no more in-law.
There's no law.
You're not married.
And lastly, now we have an uncle, but just not any uncle.
We have our great uncle.
Great uncle.
So, they actually explain this in the dialogue.
They say, he is my grandmother's brother.
Okay, so my uncle, this is simple.
My uncle is my mother's brother or my father's brother.
But my great uncle is one of my grandparent's brothers.
So, my grandmother's brother or my grandfather's brother.
In English, we don't distinguish.
We don't say a different word for grandmother's brother or grandfather's brother.
Right, right, exactly.
So, your great uncle could be either your grandmother's brother or your grandfather's brother.
So, in my family, I have, well, I just have one great uncle and one great aunt.
My grandmother has a sister, so I have a great aunt, and my grandfather has a brother, so I have a great uncle.
And now, the prefix great can also be applied, for example, to grandparents.
So, you can say, my great grandfather.
So, we're talking about generations.
I have a grandfather, but his father is my great grandfather.
That means we go back in the past one more generation.
All right, so let's take a break and let's listen to the dialogue again.
My brother-in-law is having a small get-together at his house, and he invited me.
Some cousins, aunts, and uncles will be there, but also some friends from the neighborhood.
Is your great uncle Rick going to be there?
No, Rick is actually my great uncle, so he's my grandmother's brother.
So, we've picked out three key phrases for you.
All right, so on Fluency Builder, we have a great noun here, actually.
You might have heard this before in a different way, but in today's dialogue, we're talking
about a small get-together.
My brother-in-law is having a small get-together.
Now, what is a get-together, Mark?
Right, so as you notice, we say a get-together, meaning that get-together, we are taking it
as a noun.
And it may be confusing because you see the verb get, right?
And you're thinking it's a verb, but no.
A get-together is a reunion, a meeting.
All right, a party.
A party.
So, maybe it's a very informal party, very casual.
Not fancy.
A get-together.
I could say, Marco, I'm having a get-together at my apartment.
Do you want to come and bring your girlfriend?
Right, so very simple.
Maybe we have a drink or some food, but it's nothing fancy.
Very informal, very casual.
And when we were asking about the get-together, we asked if it's a family thing or is it just
friends?
So, I want to take a look at this phrase here, a family thing.
Is it a family thing?
What am I asking when I say, okay, Marco, this party you're having, is it a family thing?
Well, you're asking if it's a family reunion, a family party.
So, that means if I'm not in your family, can I still come?
Right, because if it's a family thing, it's just for people in my family.
If it's for everyone, no problem.
But I don't want to go to your house if it's a family thing because that's private.
Right, so usually, for example, maybe Christmas dinner would usually be a family thing.
You celebrate it with your family mostly, but it's not always a family thing.
I could say, this year my birthday is just a family thing.
I'm only inviting family members.
All right, and lastly, we got a little bit confused with the great uncle and the stepson
and the ex-wife.
And so, we said, you know what?
Now, this is another great phrase.
The phrase means, I don't understand.
I'm confused.
Right, that's exactly it.
So, if someone is explaining something and I don't understand, then you can say, you
Right, and sometimes I say this when someone is giving a very long explanation for something.
So, to get to my house, you turn left here and then you go two blocks, you turn right
and you go straight and you wait for the stoplight.
And then you go to the right-hand corner, there's a store.
I say, wait, wait, wait.
All right, so that's all we have.
Let's listen to the dialogue one last time.
Some cousins, aunts and uncles will be there, but also some friends from the neighborhood.
No, Rick is actually my great-uncle, so he's my grandmother's brother.
So, speaking of extended family members, what else can we mention?
We have stepfamily, your stepson, your stepdaughter.
What about if you have an adopted child?
Would you differentiate it?
Some people do, some people don't.
Most people just say, this is my son, this is my daughter.
But I would like to add that with stepson, stepdaughter, it's not just divorce that we have this.
Also, if the parent, maybe the mother dies and the father has a new wife,
then the new wife can say, this is my stepson, this is my stepdaughter.
So, there are two possibilities.
One is death and one is remarriage because of divorce.
But as far as adopted, no, usually just say my son and my daughter.
But I can tell you this.
If my father and my mother divorce, my father has a new wife, and together they have a baby,
the baby, boy or girl, is my half-brother or half-sister because we share one parent, my father.
Right. This is very interesting.
So, if you do have a brother or sister that is not from your same mother or father,
but just one parent, then yeah, it's called a half-brother or sister.
Half, remember this, half because half of their parents are the same as your parents.
Maybe one father or mother.
But with stepbrothers and stepsisters, the only reason you're related is because of marriage, not because of blood.
Right. We didn't mention that you could have a stepbrother.
So, it's your brother, but he's legally your brother, but he's not related to your father or anyone in your family.
That's right. That's right.
So, maybe you have many stepbrothers.
You could have a stepbrother and a half-brother.
So, there are lots of different combinations because of many different reasons.
All right, guys. That's all the time we have for today.
But it's a little bit of a confusing topic.
So, if you have any questions or any doubts, you can come to our website, EnglishPod.com, and you can leave them there.
Yeah, we hope to see you guys online. And until next time.
My name is Catherine and today we're talking about an uncomfortable subject, not because
it's uncomfortable to talk about, but because it's, well, it doesn't really feel good when
you have to go do it.
Today we're going to the doctor, but because we need to get vaccines.
So vaccines, these are, well, let's listen out during the dialogue and maybe you can
guess what this word means when we come back, we'll be defining it for you, talking about
different kinds of vaccines, but just remember that we're talking about going to the doctor
to get these shots.
So let's take a listen to that dialogue.
Hello Mrs. Parker.
Hello, Dr. Peters.
Just fine.
Ricky and I are here for his vaccines.
According to the vaccination record, Ricky has received his polio, tetanus and hepatitis
B shots.
He is 14 months old, so he is due for hepatitis A, chicken pox and measles shots.
What about rubella and mumps?
Well, I can only give him these for now and after a couple of weeks I can administer the
rest.
Doctor, I think I also may need a tetanus booster.
Last time I got it was maybe 15 years ago.
We'll check our records and I'll have the nurse administer the booster as well.
Now please hold Ricky's arm tight.
This may sting a little.
So now let's take a look at all of these words that are a little bit difficult, but we'll
try to define them on Language Takeaway.
So Marco, first off, what is a vaccine?
So a vaccine we can say is a type of medicine.
But it's basically an injection or medicine where you're helping a person defend him or
herself against a specific type of disease.
Okay, so vaccination is medicine you receive before you're sick so that in the future you
won't get sick with that disease.
So that's a vaccine.
There are many, many different types of vaccines.
And of course, when you do get them, you need to keep track of them via a vaccination record.
So a record is basically a list or a document that shows what has been done.
And this is very important when you go to the doctor to have a record of the things
that you have received, the vaccines you've received.
So for example, if I have a baby and I want the baby to have vaccinations, we'd have to
keep a record of all of his vaccinations.
So we are, obviously we get different vaccines at different stages in our life.
Let's talk about some of the ones that we're taking a look at today.
So for example, we have a tetanus vaccine or a tetanus shot.
All right, the tetanus shot is very famous because it's maybe the most painful.
It really makes you sore for a little while.
And most people get the tetanus shot when they're very young.
This prevents you from getting the disease tetanus.
And tetanus is something you can get from animals or from dirty nails, dirty metal,
anything that pokes out at you.
And so you get the tetanus shot, but then after your tetanus shot, every five or 10
years, you need to get a booster shot.
So there's the tetanus shot and there's the tetanus booster.
So when we talk about a booster, when we're talking about vaccines, is basically you are
reinforcing it.
You are making it stronger because obviously over time it becomes weak.
The medicine won't last forever.
So you need to get a booster to make sure that you are still protected.
Basically it's an update.
So we have tetanus and tetanus booster, but we have another kind of vaccine.
The disease here is called hepatitis.
So we're taking a look at hepatitis B and hepatitis A. So there are different types
of hepatitis.
So both kinds of hepatitis you can catch from other people.
Although hepatitis A, I believe you can catch from saliva or contact.
Whereas hepatitis B you catch from other people's blood or if you have a relationship with
someone.
So hepatitis A and B are different.
Hepatitis B affects your liver and so there's different kinds of severity here.
Now hepatitis A and B there are vaccinations for.
You can get those shots and it's very important if you're traveling to places that require
them so that you don't get sick.
So, well, these different types of hepatitis, they are dangerous, right?
And they could be fatal.
But another one that's very, very common, especially with young kids, we have chicken
pox.
Chicken pox.
Now it's kind of a funny name, chicken pox, P-O-X.
But it's also like you say, very common.
So basically the symptoms are what?
You get these red bumps all over your body and they itch.
You want to scratch and scratch and scratch.
And so I remember when I had this, I was a little kid.
My mom said, don't scratch because if you scratch, it will leave a mark.
It leaves a scar.
So yeah, chicken pox, you get these little rashes all over your body.
They're very itchy, but they will go away with time.
Now it's usually, I've heard that it's recommended that people get it.
Actually you should get it when you're young because it's more dangerous if you get it
It's very painful as an adult.
So basically chicken pox, they say if you get it once, you can't get it again.
You'll never get it again.
So if you get it as an adult, it's shingles, it's very painful.
So we've taken a look at a lot of vocab here.
Why don't we now jump to another section.
Let's continue talking about these different types of vaccines.
Let's go to language takeaway part two.
So we have this special category of vaccinations.
They usually go together.
We have mumps, measles, and rubella, or there's a special acronym, MMR, mumps, measles, rubella.
So you basically get like a little combo.
You usually get all three of them at one go.
So what are these measles?
Well, measles is a virus.
He's got the measles.
You often read books from like the 19th century where everyone gets the measles when they're
a child.
But measles is basically a virus, but it's kind of like the chicken pox because you get
a rash on your skin.
And is it fatal?
Can you die from the measles?
I think in the old days you could, but these days it's pretty, pretty easy to take care
And what about mumps?
Now mumps, I'm not too sure about this, but I've heard that mumps is like a swelling in
the space between your jaw and your ear.
So you know where your ear kind of comes down to your jaw.
That part of your head starts to swell and is very uncomfortable.
And it could cause, like the consequences could be fatal, right?
So what about rubella?
Rubella is another kind of rash.
And from my reading, I saw that rubella is not very dangerous for most people, but it
is very dangerous for pregnant women.
So most pregnant women are tested for rubella or the rubella vaccine, and they're told to
get the vaccine before they're pregnant so that they don't get this disease and harm
their baby because they can have a miscarriage if they get rubella while they're pregnant.
Okay, so pretty much you want to get all these vaccines to make sure that you don't get sick
Now, when we were talking about getting the vaccines, the doctor said, he didn't say you're
going to get the vaccines or I'm going to give you a vaccine.
He said, I'll have the nurse administer the vaccine or administer the booster.
So the verb here that we use with vaccine is to administer.
And this is something that the nurse does or the doctor does.
And it's just a way to say that the nurse will give you this shot, to give you a shot.
But administer is more formal.
It's more common in the medical kind of medical talk.
So you'd say administer the test or administer the vaccine.
So for example, a doctor would say, I'm going to administer a shot of penicillin.
Or I'm going to administer this blood test.
That means I'm actually going to do it right now.
Now, obviously these vaccines, some of them you can take as a little pill.
Some of them you can take as drops, like, you know, it's very painless, but some of
them you have to get a shot and sometimes they do hurt.
And we saw in the dialogue that the doctor said, this may sting a little.
Doctors always say this before they give you a shot.
Now sting is a verb that means to hurt, but it's not like I hit you in the face, boom,
it stings.
No, a sting is like a kind of a very kind of light hurt.
It's like a pinch.
It's like a small, sharp pain, small, sharp pain.
That's a good way to describe it.
So oftentimes we talk about bees, you know, bees that fly around, they sting you.
So it's a small, sharp pain.
So let's listen to the dialogue again.
Let's keep a lookout for how we pronounce all of these words and we'll be back in a
Hello, Mrs. Parker.
Just fine, thank you.
According to his vaccination record, Ricky has received his polio, tetanus and hepatitis
So nowadays, most of these shots are administered when the babies are just born.
They're still in the hospital and they get a lot of vaccines to prevent them from getting
I remember when I was a kid, we didn't even have a vaccine for chicken pox.
So these days there are more and more.
The oldest I think is the polio vaccine, the one that we hear the most about because it
was a very serious disease that affected a lot of people up until the 1940s and 50s,
I believe.
So yeah, it's important really to read about these things and to educate yourself so that
you know what you should get yourself and your kids.
That's exactly right because it's very important.
Most of these diseases or most of these viruses have been eradicated because more and more
people have had access to vaccines.
Like for example, polio, it's very rare you would say to actually get it nowadays because
there's a vaccine, but it's very, very important I think.
But some people get a little bit too nervous.
Like for example, whenever they travel to a tropical country, they're always afraid
of yellow fever, so they get yellow fever shots.
But I've never really seen anyone get yellow fever because you go to like Thailand for
A friend of mine went to Thailand and got dengue fever.
So there's no vaccination for this, but it is a very painful disease you can get in tropical
places.
So I think the moral is talk to your doctor, see what he or she suggests because they will
understand maybe better than you will.
And then just follow their advice for different places that you're traveling to.
So that's all the time we have for today, but if you guys have any questions or doubts,
you can always visit us at our website EnglishPod.com and we'll be there to answer it.
Eoin Le Know at elo titlo.com
And today, Marco, we're talking about some very special places, right?
Today we're going to talk about the famous list of the seven wonders of the world.
So you've probably heard about this before.
We're not going to tell you what this means quite yet.
Take a listen to today's dialogue.
And when we come back, we'll talk a little bit more about what these wonders are and
where they are.
Have you seen this news article?
Apparently an organization has made a list to name the new seven wonders of the world
and people could vote for them online.
Wow, that's really interesting.
So who would?
Well, the Great Wall of China, the Taj Mahal in India.
It really is an amazing work of architecture and art.
The entire complex is made of white marble and in the interior of the tomb, the walls
are covered with gems and emeralds.
Also amongst the winners is Petra in Jordan, Machu Picchu in Peru, and the pyramid in Chichen
Itza in Mexico.
It also says that the Christ Redeemer statue in Brazil and the Colosseum in Rome are wonders.
I would love to go to Italy and see the Colosseum, stand in the middle like a gladiator.
Well, let's see if we can find some cheap airfare and we can go towards the end of the
Good idea.
So let's talk about these very interesting places all over the world.
Now on Language Takeaway.
So the set phrase for this, Marco, is the seven wonders of the world.
Now the key here is the word wonder.
What is a wonder?
A wonder is something very amazing, incredible.
It's something that's beyond your imagination almost.
You can't even imagine how man or how someone created it.
And so wonderful is a similar word that's an adjective, something that's just great,
fantastic is wonderful.
A wonder is something very, very special.
And here we have seven of them.
And it's a list basically that you can see even online about these wonders all over the
world and they're so special because they are amazing works of art and architecture.
And starting off with one of the most famous ones is in China.
It's the Great Wall of China.
I think what's special about this I've heard is that when astronauts are in space, it's
so long and so distinct they can actually see the Great Wall.
Yeah, that's what I've heard as well.
It's a very long wall, thousands of kilometers long.
And it goes east to west all across the northern border of China.
So it's a very big wall.
And what's interesting about it is that it was built such a long time ago and that the
techniques used to make it were very special.
And sometimes you might hear us talk about the Great Wall instead of the Great Wall of
And so that's just a hint.
It's easy to say Great Wall.
You can say them both ways though.
Now moving west towards India, we have another very amazing work of architecture.
It's called the Taj Mahal.
Now the Taj Mahal is in North India in a city called Agra.
And it's very special because it's massive, it's very big, and it's all white marble.
And it's interesting because this place, the Taj Mahal, is not really a temple.
It was actually a tomb.
Now that's an interesting word to look at.
A tomb is a place where we bury someone, you know, after someone dies.
Maybe if you have a lot of money, you're very rich, you want to put that body in a very
special sacred place.
And that's called a tomb.
So this is actually what the Taj Mahal is.
Now we saw in the dialogue that the entire complex of the Taj Mahal is made of white
marble.
So when we talk about the entire complex, what do we mean?
Well complex here is a noun.
You might have heard it in other situations where it's an adjective, it means something
But here a complex means many buildings together, right?
So you can say the Taj Mahal is one building.
But the Taj Mahal complex maybe has four or five buildings together.
So a side temple and a gatehouse.
And so we say a complex is a grouping of buildings.
So now let's move on.
Let's take a look at Language Takeaway Part 2 and let's continue talking about these wonders
Now the top of our list in Language Takeaway Part 2 is actually a place I would love to
go to.
I've never been there.
It's in Jordan, which is a country in the Middle East and it's called Petra.
Petra.
So it's actually a city but it's also known as the lost city of Petra, right?
And what's unique about this city is that the city is built.
It's carved out of stone in this cliff.
So it's not just pieces of stone put together.
It's actually inside the rocks.
So it's very famous.
You've probably seen it in movies like Indiana Jones.
There's a big part of the scenes that go on inside Petra.
Very special place and again very unique.
Now the next site is actually very far away in South America and again it's ancient and
very intricate.
It's called Machu Picchu.
So this is in one of those very old cities that are actually in ruins now and the interesting
thing about it is that it's very high up in like a little mountain.
And those mountains there, those are the Andes, right?
So Machu Picchu, also a very famous place.
Many visitors from all over the world go there as well.
And another main attraction around the world are the pyramids.
So we have some pyramids in Egypt.
I think those are the most well-known ones.
The pyramids in Egypt like the Pyramid of Giza are very big structures.
I mean they're huge and they were built thousands of years ago but they're still here because
they were built so well.
But there are also very famous pyramids like the one we heard about today in the dialogue
in Mexico.
It's a little bit different though because the pyramids as we, most of us know them,
they're very smooth on the sides you would say.
Yeah, you can't climb on them really, right?
Well this one in Mexico actually has kind of like steps.
So it's a different type of pyramid but the shape is very similar.
So the pyramids here are in a place called Chichen Itza.
You might have heard of that.
And we have another place though which is also in South America in the city of Rio de
Janeiro.
Now this one is actually a statue, right?
It's called the Christ Redeemer.
It's a very big statue, very famous.
You've seen it maybe in pictures.
It's a statue of Jesus with his arms open.
Now the word Redeemer, okay, a Redeemer is a person, someone who does something, who
redeems.
What does it mean to be a Redeemer?
Well, a Redeemer is a person that saves souls for example.
So if you redeem yourself, you're redeeming yourself of your sins maybe.
Well yeah, you're taking value back, right?
And so in the case of Jesus, he is taking away the sins of the world and he's redeeming,
you know, that's why his arms are out.
He's redeeming all people.
And that's the idea I think behind the Christ Redeemer statue.
So the verb redeem, like you can use it in everyday life if you take a coupon and you
redeem it.
That means you, yeah, you collect the value.
You collect the value, right?
So you can use it, actually this word in everyday life.
And moving on now towards Europe, we have the famous Colosseum.
Ooh, now I love this one.
I've actually been there and I know you have too recently.
But this is a circular, like a round stadium.
So it's a place where you play sports.
Well, you did.
It was from, you know, thousands of years ago, the Roman Empire.
And it's in very good shape I would say.
You can still see it.
So it's actually called the Colosseum, although a Colosseum as we know it now can also be
the same thing, right?
A structure where sports or activities are played.
Basically, yeah, a Colosseum is an old stadium.
But the Colosseum, like you said, is definitely the Colosseum in Rome.
And we've probably seen movies of ancient Rome where sports or activities were taking
place, specifically gladiator fights.
So that's our word there, gladiator.
A gladiator is actually a person.
And a gladiator was a man who thousands of years ago during the Roman Empire would fight
maybe other men or animals and he had to fight to stay alive.
So that was his profession basically, to be a gladiator.
So now as you are a boxer, back then you were a gladiator.
And there are actually some very famous movies about gladiators, like the movie Gladiator
with Russell Crowe.
So it's a pretty common word these days.
So let's take a break.
Apparently, an organization has made a list to name the new seven wonders of the world
The entire world is in it.
And it's a great place to be.
it was voted online.
People all over the world out of different candidates or different places that were considered
to be the new seven wonders of the world.
Among those, like some of them that didn't win for example was Angkor Wat in Cambodia.
Yeah, I never understood that.
I think Angkor Wat is such an amazing place and so big and it was the heart of this old civilization.
And instead we have other things like a statue.
Yeah, I don't agree with it as well.
But actually the Statue of Liberty of the United States was also considered as a candidate for a wonder of the world.
Well, that's right. America doesn't have any wonders.
You have natural wonders I think. The Grand Canyon is considered I think one of those natural wonders.
Yes, I think Niagara Falls also maybe.
But that's an interesting point though, Marco.
We've got the great wonders of the world and we've got the natural wonders.
Well, a natural wonder of the world means that it's there naturally.
It's not man-made.
All of these things that we see here, somebody had to make them.
Whereas for example the Grand Canyon or Niagara Falls, they are there naturally.
It's by nature.
All right. So man-made versus natural or made by nature.
Right. So it's very interesting because you have like we said natural seven wonders of the world.
You have these, the new ones.
You have the ancient world wonders which like none of them exist anymore.
I think only the pyramids.
That's right. The hanging gardens of Babylon and the colossus at Rhodes.
Yeah, those ones are very cool but not like you said, not around anymore.
But maybe some of you actually, maybe your countries were considered to host one of these wonders or maybe you voted for some of them.
What is a wonder where you come from?
It doesn't have to be on this list.
It can be something you think is wonderful.
English translation by CastingWords
My name is Catherine and today we're talking about American education and college life.
This is actually a user suggestion that they wanted to know more or less what it would
be like a dialogue between friends on a typical day in college.
Alright so this is an advanced level lesson.
We're going to be talking in a normal conversational speed.
We're going to listen to the dialogue and when we come back we'll talk about some of
these key phrases and words that might help you understand the dialogue better.
Hey Jordan, is that you?
Oh hey, no kidding.
I haven't seen you since orientation three months ago.
So how you been?
Settling into college life okay?
I pledged Phi Iota Alpha so I'm living at the frat house now.
Oh, so you're a frat boy now, huh?
Yeah, yeah, I know.
That's totally cliche, but really I think it's been a good decision.
Got a lot of support and good suggestions from the guys.
Well, not much.
I'm still living at home and commuting to school.
I ended up dropping that metalworking class I was so excited about.
It just wasn't as interesting as I'd hoped.
The guidance counselor suggested that I focus on my prerequisite courses so that I can make
sure the credits count.
That sounds smart, but kind of boring.
Yeah, it is a little bit.
I joined the Great Outdoors Club though, which has been a lot of fun.
We've gone on two camping trips already and I've made some good friends.
Hey, so have you decided on your major yet?
Definitely pre-med.
I still have no clue, but we don't have to declare a major until our sophomore year,
so I've got time.
Oops, I'm late for class.
I've got to run.
Okay, take care.
Hey, nice running into you.
Yeah, you too.
So now let's start with all these words and phrases on Language Takeaway.
So hey Jordan, is that you?
Right, this phrase, long time no see, which if you look at it, it doesn't really make
sense.
It looks like we're missing a couple of words.
It looks like an incomplete sentence.
Yeah, like the subject, who?
I haven't seen you, you haven't seen you.
So really the meaning of this is I haven't seen you in a long time.
And actually I've heard that this phrase was taken from Chinese.
I've also heard that, so it's kind of like pigeon English.
And now it's very, very common in English to say this.
You say this with your friends.
And yeah, long time no see.
Because if you translate this literally to Chinese, it makes sense, right?
All right, so we haven't seen our friend in a long time.
And he's like, yeah, no kidding.
I think it's been since orientation.
So what is this orientation that he's talking about?
Now this is an important part of the average American college experience.
Orientation is a special time, maybe for one week or a couple of days, at the very beginning
of your first year of university.
All right, so my first week of school, I didn't have any classes, but I went to school and
with all of the other first year students, we're called freshmen, I had to do activities
and meet people and sign up for classes.
And basically, orientation is a time when you learn about a new system or a new program.
So how it works, because maybe you don't really know yet how to pick your classes or where
the dorms are or how the meals work if you have to go to the cafeteria, etc., right?
And it comes from the verb to orient.
So I orient myself by facing the right direction.
So orientation is really about teaching you how to start in a new system.
So well, that was three months ago and a lot has happened.
Our speaker says that he pledged Phi Iota Alpha.
So what is this to pledge in this?
Now this is Greek as well.
Phi Iota Alpha is Greek and this means that we're talking about a fraternity.
So fraternity is a group of boys, a sorority is a group of girls, and these are communities,
so social societies that you have to apply to be a member of.
But we don't say apply.
Right, you pledge.
So it's like I pledge allegiance.
You say I want to be in your group, I want to be in your fraternity, and so you will
have to do special things to become a member.
So the verb to pledge would be to basically to promise something honorably or faithfully,
And that's the nice way of putting it.
But generally when you talk about sororities and fraternities, these upperclassmen, so
third, fourth year students, they make the students who are pledging do very weird things.
So as you said, this is for these two guys, this is for a fraternity.
But if it's this type of club for girls, it's called a?
Sorority.
Okay, so it's different.
So I'm pledging this sorority, that means I'm trying to become a member of this sorority.
So I think it's worthwhile mentioning many of you have probably seen it in movies, these
fraternities or sororities, and they all have names based on the Greek alphabet.
Right, so the letters, Phi, Iota, Alpha, or Kappa, Kappa, Gamma, these are the letters
that basically represent the name of the fraternity.
And what's interesting is that maybe I am in Kappa Kappa Gamma at my school, there's
another school with another Kappa Kappa Gamma, we're all related.
It's the same social community.
So they sometimes do events together, things like that.
So actually these fraternities or sororities, it's not independent to a school, it's actually
like a wide network of people that belong to this club.
Exactly, it's a national network usually.
So it's kind of like being in the Boy Scouts.
Yeah, similar except the activities are much different.
So these people, they may live at the frat house, like in this dialogue, he's living
at the frat house.
Now remember here, fraternity, that becomes frat if we're talking colloquially.
So the frat house is the fraternity house, it's where those boys live, but only the Phi,
Iota, Alpha boys.
Right, so no one, if I have a friend and he's not Phi, Iota, Alpha, then he can't live there.
Exactly, and we have a similar thing for girls, that's the sorority house.
So a frat house is the fraternity house, basically like their club house.
Where they live though, yeah.
And so sometimes guys that belong to fraternities, they're referred to as frat boys.
Hey, frat boy, yeah, so fraternity boy, this is not always the nicest thing to say, it's
got a negative meaning, because a lot of the activities that frat boys do stereotypically
involve lots of drinking and maybe being loud.
So frat boy is someone who's in a fraternity and it's usually a critical way of talking
about those guys.
So this whole fraternity, sorority thing, as he said, is a little bit cliche, right?
Yeah, this is a great word, I use this a lot actually.
So something that's cliche would be almost what's expected, but in a bad way, right?
So you joining a fraternity is a little bit cliche, because it's kind of like...
It's what everyone does in the movies and on TV, like, oh, I'm going to college, I'm
going to join a fraternity.
It's almost like boring, it's so normal.
But you could also say that like that movie, at the end of the movie, the man and the woman,
they fought, but then they got back together, it's so cliche.
So it's something that's overused, expected, very typical.
Uninteresting.
Uninteresting, okay.
So we have a cliche, we're saying that a fraternity is cliche.
Now, the other guy on the other hand is living off campus, he lives at home, but he said
he commutes to school every day.
So he says, I'm commuting to school.
Now in America, there's usually two options.
One is to live on campus, that means to live at your university in a dormitory or an apartment.
But many people commute, and this means they drive to school every day, and then they drive
home at night, they don't live on the campus.
So you can also commute to work every day, right?
This is what people do, you don't live at the office.
I hope not.
No, this is a common thing, people will drive to work, and you might ask them, how long
is your commute?
So you say, oh, one hour, that means I drive one hour to work.
So if I take the bus or the train, the subway, is that also commuting?
It is, it doesn't matter how you do it, it just means you don't live where you work or
where you study, so you have to travel there by some means of transportation.
So, well, now going back to the academic aspect of this dialogue, he said that he ended up
dropping a class.
Okay, so to drop means to stop attending a class.
Maybe you don't have enough time, maybe you don't like it, but to drop a class means you
will no longer study, you will not take the tests, you will not get a grade.
It's the opposite of to sign up for a class or to register for a class.
So the difference between dropping a class and failing a class is that basically you're
making the decision to not go there anymore.
So usually there's a time you can do this, so for the first two weeks you can attend
classes and if you don't have enough time or you don't like a class, you can drop the
class.
But if you stay in the class, you just don't come or you do very poorly on your tests,
that's called failing.
So there are some classes, because I don't know, can you drop any class or do you have
to take them at some point?
That's our next phrase, that's a prerequisite course, right?
So usually the university in America will tell you, you have to study math, you have
to study one semester of science, you have to study English for one semester.
So these are called prerequisites.
It's when the university tells you, you have to study something.
And I think you also have some courses that you can't take until you've passed some other
course, right?
So for example, you can't take economy unless you've passed calculus.
So that's another prerequisite.
So we'd say, the prerequisite for economics is calculus one.
Or the prerequisite for Spanish 200 is Spanish 100.
Means you have to take something before you take something else.
So there's two meanings of the word, but they're both related to requirements, what you have
to do.
Okay, you need a requirement.
Now moving on and talking about the major, he said, well, if you decided on a major and
he said, well, pre-med.
All right, so major, first of all, is what you choose to study, right?
The focus of your study.
Exactly, the focus.
You might study other classes, but your focus, your main interest area is one thing.
And in his case, he's talking about pre-med.
Now what does pre-med stand for?
Because it is a short version of a longer word.
So it's pre-medicine.
So medicine is something you study if you want to be a doctor.
Because in America, you don't become a doctor after four years.
You have to go get your BA, your bachelor's degree, and then you have to get your PhD,
your doctorate.
So people who want to go to graduate school first have to study many required courses.
That's the pre-med focus.
Okay, so that's what he's talking about.
He's definitely going to focus on pre-med.
He wants to be a doctor.
He's not going to be a doctor soon, but he wants to start studying to be a doctor.
So he will become a pre-med, a pre-med major.
And what about for lawyers?
I know that there are also something that you focus on before.
There is, yeah.
That's called pre-law.
Pre means before.
So obviously, a lawyer needs to study for a long time as well.
And with your undergrad degree, so your first four years, you would study pre-law.
So this is what you focus on for your four years, and then you go into grad school and
become an attorney or a specific type of lawyer.
But a lawyer doesn't have to study for a PhD.
A lawyer studies for a JD.
That's called a Juris Doctorate.
That's the law degree.
So, well, he's going into pre-med, but the other guy is like, well, I don't have a clue
yet.
And he doesn't have to declare a major until the sophomore year.
Okay, a couple of things going on here.
First of all, there are different names for each year.
So freshmen, sophomore, junior, senior.
One, two, three, four.
So sophomore year is the second year.
So if you say I'm a sophomore student at XY University, that means you're in your second
And he says that he doesn't have to declare a major until his second year, until his sophomore
And this phrase, to declare a major, is very important.
It means that you will tell the university what your focus will be.
And you have to do this.
You can't just go to school and then graduate.
You have to say, I will focus on this because every major has what we just talked about,
prerequisites.
So, but in this first year, you don't have to tell the university yet what you want to
study.
Maybe you just, you take a variety of courses and then you tell them, okay, now I'm going
to focus on this.
That's what I did.
And that's very common for liberal art schools.
Maybe if you're in a specific trade school or you're in a certain track, you would have
a different situation.
But for me, liberal arts, I studied history, I studied philosophy, I studied language and
literature.
And then my sophomore year, my second year, I decided, oh, I will study philosophy.
And that's.
So you're going to focus on that.
One thing.
So it's, it's interesting because, uh, in many other countries, the education system
requires you to declare your major before you start studying, right?
You say, well, I'm going to study business.
And then your, your four years are around that.
Whereas in some, in some places in the United States or for some majors, you don't have
to do that.
In England, for example, you have one area of study, one major, and that's all you study,
Because in, in, in the U S you can get a major in history with a minor in philosophy, right?
I was the opposite.
I had a major in philosophy and a minor in history.
So major means something bigger, more important and minor is smaller or less important.
And a minor is, uh, is your second field of study.
So you take fewer classes, but you still know something about that.
But do they always have to be related because like, for example, can you be a major of philosophy
with a minor in, I don't know, astronomy or something like that?
Something like pre-med.
So medicine, it's hard because there's so many requirements, right?
But I had a number of friends who are major in computer science and a minor in, um, literature,
So you can, you can mix it up at certain schools.
So what would be the advantage of that, uh, of doing something like that?
You know, because most places or most education systems say that you or teach that, you know,
you should specialize, you should be focused on one area.
So if you're in computer science, then you should be focused on that.
So why, why would somebody specialize in computer science in their major, but then take a minor
in like literature or something?
Well, let's use that example.
I think one of the benefits for the liberal arts degree, and this is something they talk
about a lot in education, is that you have a broad area of knowledge.
So yes, you know a lot about computer science.
You have to, to graduate, but maybe in your future you will write articles about computer
science or you want a blog or you want a job that has a public relations aspect.
You need to know how to write, and you're not going to learn how to write in all of
your computer science classes, but you will by reading a lot and writing a lot in your
literature classes.
So some people like to say that it's very good to mix up business and languages or computer
science and literature because it's a way to be well-rounded.
That's actually interesting because in most places, specifically in the exact sciences
fields, they focus more on that, like engineers.
It's all about engineering, math, and all this, but the human aspect, like you said,
or the liberal arts aspect, like literature or history, they don't get much of that.
So when you actually have to become a manager or write or manage people, you don't really
have the skills to do that because you never really took a class.
That's right, and it can be very hard to learn how to write well and to speak well all of
a sudden.
And I think that's where people struggle also when they're applying for jobs.
I believe in being a well-rounded individual.
Obviously there's some benefits to being very, very knowledgeable about one thing.
So I guess we could ask you guys, our users, do you believe that it's better to be knowledgeable
about one thing or maybe more well-rounded and to be an expert in many different things?
Yeah, you should let us know.
Let's jump into our dialogue one last time.
Let's take a look at what everyone was saying and we'll be back in a bit.
Hey, Jordan, is that you?
Oh, hey, no kidding.
I pledged Phi Iota Alpha, so I'm living at the frat house now.
It's totally cliche, but really I think it's been a good decision.
I joined the Great Outdoors Club, though, which has been a lot of fun.
Alright, so it's a very interesting topic.
Education systems are so different around the world.
The way that you go to college, how many years.
I know that in England you can do a master's in a year, I think.
One year.
Whereas in the States it's two.
Or three.
I think even a bachelor's in England is three years.
I believe so, yeah.
But they also have an extra year of high school.
An extra year of high school.
Fifth year, yeah.
So every system is a bit different.
In America, generally, it's either two or four years for your college degree.
And then, yeah, it's graduate school for two, three, or four years.
Now one of the interesting things that I found is kind of unique to the Latin American education
system is that people can actually go to college for five years for majors like in business.
And what they do is they call it a commercial engineer.
So it's like an engineering major, but it's not really engineering because it's business.
So it's interesting because you go to school for five years to be a business major.
Well, we have something called a joint program, J-O-I-N-T, joint meaning coming together.
And you could do that.
You could be, for example, a chemistry major, but also a business major.
And then maybe go into oil refinery or some kind of very specialized business where you
do need to know something about chemistry.
And that's called a joint degree.
That's really smart as well.
Well, it's interesting.
Let us know what you studied.
Maybe you went to school for two years.
I think you can get a technical degree in two years?
Yeah, associate's degree or a technical degree for two years.
And then you can get a bachelor's, a master's, a PhD.
Let us know what your education background is like and how it works in your country.
My name is Catherine and today we're talking about a kind of education that is quite unique
actually a little bit different from the kind of education that most people get.
So we normally go to school to learn but on this occasion we're going to talk about a
different way of obtaining your education.
We're talking about homeschooling someone.
Let's check this word out in today's vocabulary preview.
Alright so the word is homeschool, to homeschool someone.
It's I guess a verb.
And what does it mean if you're homeschooled?
Well you think about the word school, home, it means that you study at home.
But you don't go to school every day.
Instead you have a parent or maybe a friend of a parent who comes to your house to teach
you every day.
So it's basically like having a tutor for but not to help you with school but to actually
teach you everything that you learn at school.
That's right and some people are homeschooled with their siblings, so brothers and sisters.
Other people are homeschooled alone.
We'll talk about some of these things in a moment but let's take a listen to our dialogue.
I think we should homeschool our children when we decide to have kids.
Well our public schools here are not very good and private schools are just too expensive.
I've been reading up on some homeschooling and it has a lot of advantages.
I think that by doing something like that we would be isolating our children from social
interaction.
Well first of all I would be able to teach them everything they learn in school in a
more relaxed and fun way.
I also think that having a one-on-one class is much better since you can focus more on
his or her strengths or weaknesses.
I think neither your parents or mine would agree to such an idea.
I'll bring it up over Sunday brunch.
Good luck with that.
All right we're back so now let's take a look at some of that language on Language
So as we mentioned in the introduction to today's podcast, homeschooling is one of many
different educational options.
The most common ones are, in the beginning of the dialogue, public and private school.
So in most places you will have public schools where basically the education is paid for
by the government.
So public schools are schools that are available to all students.
You don't have to pay to attend them.
This is of course in America.
In Britain the system is a bit different.
But in America you have the public schools which most kids go to.
Of course if your parents don't want you to study in public school there's another option
that's called private school.
Private school as the name says, it's not really private but what happens is that it's
not available free for everyone.
You have to actually pay to go to the school.
The school has a tuition, kind of like a private college or university.
So you have to pay every semester or every year.
And usually these schools also have application standards.
So they interview you, they interview your parents.
So there's a lot of different things you have to do to attend these schools.
So they're a bit more exclusive.
So these are basically some three options you have.
Homeschooling, public schools, private schools.
And well the two parents are kind of discussing the options of why it would be maybe not a
good idea to homeschool one of the kids.
And she says that it would be isolating our children from social interaction.
So let's take a look at the word to isolate.
And I like to think of island, isolate, kind of similar in a way.
Basically to isolate from is to keep away from.
So if your student or your child is being homeschooled, he or she might be isolated
from other students.
They're not near or with other students.
So to isolate means to keep away from or to keep separately.
So like you said, maybe if you're on an island, you are isolated from the rest of the world.
I live in the country far away from the city.
I feel isolated from other people.
So she's saying that the kid might be isolated from social interaction.
Now, social interaction.
This is a two-word phrase.
We usually take it as a phrase.
This basically means talking to or playing with other people, other kids.
So I guess in this case, it's personal or physical social interaction because nowadays
we have social interaction via the internet.
But in the case of a student going to school, it would be of course playing on the playground,
attending class.
But social interaction means talking to or being with other people.
Well, and the other parent argued that there are many advantages and specifically he said
that having a one-on-one class is better for the kids.
Alright, so this word one-on-one refers to one teacher, one student.
One parent, one child.
It means when you're talking to someone and there's no one else around.
Alright, so usually tutors teach you one-on-one.
You sit at a table and your tutor helps you study.
But in the case of homeschooling, the student learns one-on-one.
So learns directly from the teacher.
Right, and that's different from public schools obviously because you have one teacher for
maybe 30 students.
So that's one-on-one.
That's one-on-many.
But one-on-one is also a word you can use when you talk about meetings.
So you could say, hey Marco, can we have a one-on-one meeting later?
I'd like to talk to you alone.
So that means I'm not going to talk to you with other people around.
Right, okay, it's like a private meeting.
So let's take a listen to the dialogue again and then we're going to come back and we're
going to take a look at some key phrases.
Well, our public schools here are not very good and private schools are just too expensive.
I have been reading up on some homeschooling and it has a lot of advantages.
Well, first of all, I would be able to teach them everything they learn in school in a
All right, we've picked out four key phrases for you today.
So the first phrase today in Fluency Builder is the phrase to read up on.
So the sentence was, I've been reading up on homeschooling and it has a lot of advantages.
So basically if you say you have been reading up on a subject or a topic or something, it
means that you've been reading about it, you've kind of been informing yourself.
You're doing research about a topic.
So in this case, one parent is researching the homeschooling option.
So here she is reading maybe articles in a magazine or books or looking on the internet.
But you don't actually just have to read up on education.
You can read up on anything, right?
So you can read up on anything that interests you or you can do research on anything.
So you can read up on dinosaurs, for example.
I've been reading up on dinosaurs lately.
And did you know that the brontosaurus is not a real dinosaur anymore?
Okay, so we've been reading up on the advantages of homeschooling and he starts by, well, defending
his position on what the advantages are with the phrase.
Well, first of all.
This is an important little phrase.
This is something you can use, like you say, Marco, when you're going to have an argument
or maybe a discussion about something and you want to tell your points, your side of
the argument.
And so first of all means I have a list, but this is my first point.
So it's a nice little phrase to open up this list of things that you're going to say, right?
So you should drink orange juice, Marco, because first of all, it tastes good, but second of
all, or, but also it's very good for your body.
So first of all is the first main point.
So you can say second of all.
Can you go like third of all, fourth of all?
You don't really say it.
I guess you could, but.
So you go first of all, second of all, and then maybe just go and also.
Or lastly.
And then lastly to end it.
Now, one of the other points that he talked about, well, apart from the one-on-one class
was that the reason why a one-on-one class was better is because he could focus on his
or her strengths and or weaknesses.
So strengths or weaknesses or strengths and weaknesses.
This is a set phrase.
And it's important to remember that these two words are opposites.
So strengths, that's the things you're good at.
And weaknesses.
Things you're bad at.
And so, especially when you're studying in a school or you're homeschooling, it's important
that the teacher understands the strengths and weaknesses of the student.
Because something that you're really good at, maybe you should encourage and something
you're bad at, you should work harder at improving.
So it's usually fixed phrase.
You'll even get it in job interviews.
Somebody will say, well, what do you think are your strengths and weaknesses?
So remember that phrase, strengths and weaknesses.
And lastly, he said that, well, even though the idea is interesting, it might be difficult
to make the parents or the grandparents agree with him.
So he said he will bring it up over Sunday brunch.
I will bring it up.
Bring it up.
Well, you're not actually holding something.
This means that you will mention it in conversation.
Mention the topic, right?
So maybe grandma and grandpa don't think homeschooling is a good idea, but you will discuss it or
you will suggest it during Sunday brunch.
So if you want to discuss a topic, you usually say, I will bring it up with the president,
You will talk about it with the president.
You can also say, please don't bring it up.
So maybe you told a secret and you don't want the other person to know and you say, okay,
please Marco, don't bring it up.
I think that by doing something like that, we would be isolating our children from social
So homeschooling is a very interesting option.
I think it's very common, more common nowadays in Britain and North America.
But how do people that are homeschooled go to college if they didn't go to a high school?
Well, I believe that most people when they finish homeschooling will take some tests
to prove that they've actually learned the material that is required by the state.
Because, you know, in America, each state sets the educational standards.
And so it's important that you learn certain science and math skills.
And then once you take those tests, you would get your GED, your graduate diploma.
And that means that you've learned everything that a high school student should know.
So it's interesting because it would seem a little bit strange to not want your kid
to go to school.
But at the same time, there are many reasons why parents don't want their kids to go to
Like in this dialogue, maybe the schools are not really good or too expensive.
What do you think about homeschooling?
Would you send your kids to homeschool?
I don't think I would do homeschooling because I think it's really important for students
to or for children to learn how to get along with others and to learn to negotiate and
to learn to play and to also learn to respect their teachers because you have a different
relationship with your parents than you do your teachers.
And I think there's a lot of valuable social lessons you can learn at school.
But I do understand why a lot of people choose this option, especially if the schools in
their area are poor performing schools so that the students aren't learning enough.
Or if maybe they're not safe because some schools there's some bullying or there's some
violence.
And so for those reasons, I definitely understand the motivation to do homeschooling.
But then again, you can't.
I mean, you can get homeschooled from kindergarten all the way through high school, right?
But there is no homeschooling for university unless you do like an online degree or something
You can't really be homeschooled for college.
No, there's distance courses so you could use the internet and learn online.
But no, you can't homeschool for university.
It's a very debatable topic.
A lot of people defend it saying it's good.
It brings parents closer together to their kids, that kids enjoy learning, that they
learn better, etc.
Other people don't really agree with it.
So what is your opinion?
Do you agree with homeschooling?
We hope to hear your arguments there.
Okay, we'll see you there.
수가
My name is Catherine and today we're tackling a very difficult issue for many English learners.
We're talking about taking things from other people and giving them back.
So today we are going to talk about money and we're going to lend money and borrow money
and we're going to talk more about this after we listen to the dialogue.
Can I borrow five bucks?
I'll pay you back on Tuesday.
Last time I lent you money you never paid me back.
I promise if you lend me five dollars today I will repay you in full next week.
But I'm taking your skateboard as collateral.
I can't believe you don't trust me.
It's nothing personal.
Just business.
So now let's take a look at that language on Language Takeaway.
So first up we have the key verbs for today.
The verb to borrow and to lend.
Now this is a really important difference to make because many people make this mistake
where they use the wrong verb.
Now if I ask you Marco, can I borrow your bicycle?
That means can I take your bicycle from you and then later I'll give it back.
But I want to use it.
So the verb is kind of reflexive.
It's going on to you.
You want to borrow.
I want to borrow.
I want to take it from you for a short time and then I want to give it back.
So to borrow.
Now the other verb is to lend and that on the other hand goes from me to you.
So you borrow my bicycle.
I lend you my bicycle.
I give it to you.
So another way of asking can I borrow is can you lend me your bike?
That means can you act?
Can you do this thing for me?
So there's two different ways of saying it and it's very important to remember who is
doing what.
So remember the person taking is borrowing.
The person giving is lending.
So it's not correct to say can you borrow me your bicycle?
Can you lend me?
Like can you lend me a hand?
So remember this.
To borrow is something I do.
I want to borrow from you.
It's the person, the subject in a sentence.
But in the case of lending, someone else is doing it.
So can you lend to me or can you lend it to him?
You have to say who it's being lent to.
And as you said who it's being lent to.
So the past tense of lend is lent.
So Marco lent me his bike last week and I broke it.
So now I have to pay him a lot of money.
You have to pay me five bucks and that's our next word, bucks.
Now this is a slang term.
So this is something we say very casually in America when we want to talk about dollars.
So one buck is one dollar.
A hundred bucks is a hundred dollars.
Now as you said it's very American.
You wouldn't really use it like, I don't know if you're in Britain, you wouldn't say a hundred
No, you would say quid.
Quid.
So they don't have dollars so they don't say bucks.
Not in England.
So we wanted to borrow five dollars and that person promised to pay you back on Tuesday.
So this is a lot like that verb to lend.
To lend him, to pay you, you have to say who you're going to pay, right?
So Marco, I'm sorry about your bicycle.
I will pay you back tomorrow.
That means I will give you money for it tomorrow.
So if you borrow money, you have to pay it back.
So I want to borrow five dollars.
I promise I will pay you back Thursday.
So now lastly, we will lend money, but of course we need a guarantee.
We need something to make sure that you will pay me back.
So that's called collateral.
Now collateral is important because sometimes you can't trust someone, like you say, Marco.
And so for example, if I want to rent a bicycle, so I want to use it for the day, maybe there's
a store that they rent bicycles to people.
I would give my passport or my driver's license as collateral because I will definitely return
to take my driver's license or passport back.
So that's basically a sign of a promise, money or identification or some object.
So usually, for example, if you're going to get a very big loan at the bank, they will
ask you for something as collateral.
So maybe you will have to give them your house as collateral.
So you're saying if I can't pay you back, then you can take my house.
So collateral is the last word in language takeaway, but we do have some great phrases
for you coming up in Fluency Builder.
Last time I lent you money, you never paid me back.
I promise if you lend me five dollars today, I will repay you in full next week.
OK, but I'm taking your skateboard as collateral.
It's nothing personal, just business.
So let's take a look at these phrases on Fluency Builder.
So, Marco, these are two friends talking and the way they talk to each other is very casual,
so we hear at the beginning, can I borrow five bucks?
It's a persuasive phrase.
It's one of those phrases where you're trying to convince or persuade people and you can
use it as an interjection in many situations.
So for example, here, come on, lend it to me.
Lend me some money.
I'll pay you back.
You're trying to convince that person.
But what about this situation?
I have to go and my friend, she's still sitting at her desk, maybe at work and it's taking
forever.
I say, come on, let's go.
It's like, hurry up, move it.
So it's a way of getting someone to do something.
You want them to follow you.
And now talking about money again, the person promised to repay the money.
He said, I'll pay you back on Tuesday.
But then he also said, I will repay you in full next week.
In full.
Now, remember, this is important.
I will repay you in full.
That means I won't repay you a little bit and then a little bit later.
I will repay you everything next week.
So if you have to pay or repay someone in full, you have to give them the entire amount,
not just a part of it.
Full means everything.
The final phrase is the very last line of today's dialogue.
It's just business.
I think this is a common phrase that people use when maybe doing business with friends
or people you know.
Maybe you're asking for collateral and the guy's like, I can't believe you don't trust
I'm your brother.
And he's like, it's nothing personal.
It's a way to say, listen, this is not about you and me.
This is about my rules.
And when I give something to someone, I always ask for collateral.
So it's just business.
It's just my way of doing this.
So it's a good phrase to use if you're doing maybe business with a friend.
And of course, maybe you're setting these rules and maybe your friend feels a little
bit offended.
You say, hey, it's nothing personal.
Nothing personal.
So that's the last phrase.
Let's take a listen to the dialogue again and we'll be right back.
So lending money, borrowing money.
Now, as we mentioned, sometimes you have people that ask you for money.
Now, did you ever have that friend that always asked you for money and never repaid you?
Like a dollar at a time.
Hey, can I borrow a dollar?
Can I borrow five dollars?
Yeah, always.
And actually this friend, he would borrow ten dollars and he'd say, oh, I'll buy you
a coffee tomorrow.
I say, what, a ten dollar coffee?
So it was always uneven.
And I paid more and he never repaid me in full.
And actually, I think if you add up all those little that little amount of money that maybe
some friends borrowed from you, it would be quite a decent amount.
I had many friends who would be like, hey, can I borrow a dollar or, you know, even like
25 cents at a time.
It would add up over time.
After a couple of years.
Yeah, that's that's like a whole dinner.
So what do you call these people?
The word in English that's a slang word is called a mooch.
A mooch.
He's a mooch.
It means he's always taking money from people or asking other people to pay for his dinner
or staying at someone's house.
So a mooch is someone who tries to get things for free.
I had friends like this that would for food as well.
Like maybe I brought my lunch.
This is in school, obviously.
And they would mooch off me like half my sandwich or half my juice.
Can I have some chips?
Can I have some juice?
So that's the mooch behavior.
So that's the verb to mooch off someone.
Yeah, to mooch off someone.
Maybe you have a friend that was a mooch or maybe even yourself back in the day.
So let us know how it works in your country.
If you lend money to people, family members, do you ask for collateral?
Or do you just forget about it?
My name is Kathryn and today Marco we're talking about money.
We're going to take a look at another lesson about money but this time we're going to learn
a little bit more about coins in the United States.
Different coins, so different sizes and shapes, they have different names because they represent
different amounts of money.
So today we're going to learn the names of those coins and we're also going to learn
a little bit about British money.
So let's check out the dialogue.
Help me organize these coins.
What'd you do, break the piggy bank?
Yeah, I'm going to go to the bank and change it for bills but first I have to separate
them into little piles.
I'll find all the quarters and dimes while you sort the nickels and pennies.
Then we can add everything up and take it to the bank.
I found some coins that are not from here.
Oh yeah, those are from my trip to London.
I have like 90 pence but in all it won't add up to one pound.
Are you sure the bank will change these coins for you?
All right, we're back so let's take a look at some of this language on Language Takeaway.
So first up, Marco, we have this funny phrase, break the piggy bank.
What is a piggy bank?
That's right, a piggy bank.
Now you may have seen this, it has the shape of a little pig.
It's usually made out of plastic or ceramic and it has a little hole at the top where
you can put in coins and just basically save your money there.
All right, so this is a pig-shaped bank but it's a bank you keep in your room.
Mostly children have these, right?
Yeah, so if you want to save your change or you want to save some of your coins that you
have or teach your children about saving money, then usually they have a little piggy bank
where they can store their money.
So when you break the piggy bank, usually these were made of ceramic.
So to spend the money, you have to decide when it's very, very special or important.
So you have to break the entire bank and that's when you take all the coins you've been saving.
Right, exactly, because they didn't really have a little hole where you could take it
out from.
So when you wanted to take your money out, you literally had to break it.
Break it, all right.
So that's the piggy bank.
But what do we store inside a piggy bank?
We don't store bills, do we?
That's right, no, we store coins.
So this is an interesting word, bill, you know, like the name Bill, Bill Clinton, for
Bills are the paper money that we use.
All right, but not capitalized like a name because this is a normal, a common noun.
Bills represent all paper money.
So I could get, I could ask for change.
Could I have the change in bills, please?
And if I'm at a store, they'll give me bills, maybe a $5 bill, $10 bill.
This also counts for other currencies.
So if I'm in China, I might get my renminbi, my yuan in bills.
So it's just a general name for paper money.
So, but what we store in the piggy bank are coins.
Now talking specifically about the types of coins or the different amounts that these
represent, let's take a look at those more in detail.
All right, so first up we've got quarters.
Now this should be pretty easy if you know your time because a quarter is one-fourth
of something.
So if we're talking about money, it's a quarter of a dollar or 25 cents.
So 25 cents or a quarter of a dollar or one-fourth of a dollar, we just call it a quarter.
So you know, most machines or pay phones, you need to insert quarters.
So we recognize the quarter because it's the biggest coin and it has a big eagle on one
side and on the other side it has George Washington's head.
George Washington, that's right.
Now the next in line or the next coin that we're going to take a look at are dimes.
Dimes.
Now these are also recognizable because they're the smallest coins, but that does not mean
they're the smallest amount.
Dimes are actually the second largest.
They're 10 cents.
They're 10 cents or one-tenth of a dollar.
And so you can say they're 10 cents or you can say dime.
So do you have, I don't know, if you have 10 dimes, that means you've got a dollar.
10 dimes equal one dollar.
And the face on the dime is Thomas Jefferson.
Alexander Hamilton.
No, he was the first, well, he created basically the Department of the Treasury.
But Thomas Jefferson is on another coin and that's what we're going to look at next.
The nickel.
The nickel is like the metal, you know, nickel.
And yeah, so this one is a little bit bigger than the dime, but not as big as the quarter.
I think it's a little bit thicker maybe.
It is thicker, but it's not as much money.
A nickel is five cents.
Five cents.
So one-twentieth of a dollar.
One-twentieth of a dollar.
So this is what we call a nickel.
So you would call this coin, you would say, hey, do you have any nickels?
Dimes and nickels usually go together.
Nickels and dimes.
Nickels and dimes means he doesn't have very much money.
So, yeah, and then on this coin you have the face of Thomas Jefferson.
And finally we have the only coin that's not silver colored.
It's actually more of a copper color.
That would be the penny.
The penny.
One cent or one penny is the smallest of the coins.
And actually you need 100 of these to make one dollar.
And it's very unique because it's a different color.
It's the smallest amount.
And the face on this coin, do you know this one?
This one is Abraham Lincoln.
So we've got all these important people.
All of them were presidents actually except for Alexander Hamilton.
And actually I think Alexander Hamilton looks good.
Better than the rest.
He was a pretty handsome man.
Actually, no, he was said to be very funny looking I think.
So actually all of these coins, you can call them by these names and everyone will recognize
them, especially in the US.
Now I don't really think they apply to any other country as we saw later on, for example,
money in England or the United Kingdom.
But usually in the US, if you say, hey, do you have any spare change or do you have any
nickels and dimes?
Or can I borrow a penny?
Can I borrow a penny?
Usually in the US, they have these little things called take a penny, leave a penny,
Or give a penny, take a penny.
You see these because pennies are not worth very much money.
And oftentimes people will leave a penny and if you have, it may something costs 26 cents,
but you only have a quarter, you can take a penny and then spend that.
So they're basically free pennies you might see in a store.
And then also if you get change, maybe you don't want to carry those pennies around or
that change.
You just leave that there.
And then it's kind of a way of recycling this small amount of money, which is very interesting.
It is very interesting.
But we're going to actually take a look at some British currency.
So let's take another listen to the dialogue.
And when we come back, we'll explore that.
What'd you do?
Break the piggy bank?
Yeah, I'm going to go to the bank and change it for bills.
But first I have to separate them into little piles.
I have like 90 pence, but it won't add up to one pound.
So let's take a look at these British words on Language Takeaway Part 2.
So here we've got British currency, the pound, right, is the name of the currency.
So in America we have the dollar.
In Britain we have the pound.
Is it the sterling pound?
Yeah, pound sterling.
The pound sterling.
Pound sterling.
And I think that has to do with weight, I'm sure.
But here we've got it divided into small and large quantities.
So where we have coins, we might have pence.
Sounds like cents.
And I think actually the penny might come from the British term pence.
I'm sure it does.
They're very similar and the meaning is basically one hundredth of a pound.
And a pound is basically what you would say in the US, a dollar.
A pound is the currency of England.
But actually, you know how in the United States people would say, you know, a hundred bucks,
which would be a hundred dollars.
Over there they say one hundred quid.
So yeah, this is actually important slang.
In America I would spend five bucks at the movies.
In Britain I would spend five quid.
And now that's a slang term for one pound.
And actually I've heard also like 50p, which I think means 50 cents.
Yeah, pence.
Pence.
Yeah, so 50p.
So you could say this stick of, or this pack of gum costs 50p.
So 50 pence.
Half of a pound.
So currency, obviously the currencies are different, but also it is interesting to learn
the way that you would say it locally.
So you know, next time if you are in Britain or you're talking to an English person, then
you'd know if they say, you know, 50 quid, you understand they're talking about 50 pounds.
So, but they don't use the euro over there.
Not in Great Britain.
They do use the euro on the continents of France, Italy.
And the euro is the name of that currency.
So that's good stuff.
And now lastly, although we saw it at the beginning of the dialogue, let's talk about
what this person wants to do.
He wants to change these coins into bills.
So the verb when you need to exchange money is to change money.
So let's say if I go to England and all I have is dollars, I would say I want to change
You could also say exchange, but when we're speaking to one another, we normally just
say change.
Because even the places are sometimes called like money changers.
You know, they say that or something like that.
And so if I want to change money, that means I want to maybe change dollars for euros or
dollars for pounds.
But this also can mean I want to change a dollar for some quarters.
Because I need quarters for like a laundry machine or a telephone.
And I've heard also the term is to break.
So if maybe you have a $10 bill and you need maybe a $5 bill, but you don't have like,
you ask the person to break that money.
So you say, can you break this bill?
And that actually makes sense because a bill normally you break something that's big into
smaller pieces.
So if you think about it, if I break a glass, it becomes many pieces.
Well, if I break a $5 bill, I want maybe $1.
I get five of those.
There's one piece and then it breaks into many pieces.
So to break means to ask for smaller change.
So maybe next time you guys need change, you can go up to someone and say, excuse me, can
you change this $5 bill for me?
Or can you break this $5 bill for me?
So a lot of interesting language, very useful stuff.
Those are from my trip to London.
I have like 90 pence, but in all it won't add up to one pound.
Coming back to the topic now, you seem to know a lot about this stuff.
Let's test your knowledge here.
On the $100 bill, who do we find?
What president or one person?
Benjamin Franklin.
But he wasn't a president, right?
He was not.
He was a very important figure in American history.
Many people are familiar with the story of Benjamin Franklin and the kite with the key
So he discovered electricity.
He was a very important inventor and also an important person when it comes to the creation
of America.
Now, the smaller of the bills would be the $1 bill.
And actually now you have a $1 coin as well.
But on the $1 bill, do you know who's on there?
I think it's George Washington also, right?
So he's on the quarter and on the $1 bill.
We like to recycle our presidents.
The $20 bill then would be Abraham Lincoln, right?
So they're actually on...
That's kind of unfair though.
These are favorite presidents in the United States.
But they haven't changed over time.
In other countries, you see that they change according to the important person that's in
government or maybe, for example, in China, you have Chairman Mao on there, which before
you didn't.
Or in England, you have Queen Elizabeth, before was the previous ruler, which I think was
King George VI.
But in the US, guys flat out 100 years ago, these guys haven't changed them since then.
Well, I think what America likes to celebrate its creation.
Which is still a very young country, right?
1776, so it's only been, what, 240 years.
So yeah, the idea is basically that we celebrate the founding, so the beginning of the republic.
And the men who are involved in that, they're called the founders.
George Washington, James Madison, Alexander Hamilton, all of them, Benjamin Franklin,
these people are very important in the history of America.
And that's why we celebrate them on our money.
The one exception, of course, is Abraham Lincoln.
He was from the 1860s.
Right, 16th president.
And he was very important because of the Civil War, and a lot of the changes that later happened
to our constitution.
And so he's another person who's maybe added on.
So he's basically the last guy you guys kind of celebrate, because you don't have, I don't
know...
Franklin Delano Roosevelt.
Right, or Bill Clinton, or something like this.
Right, so I guess we got to wait a while.
But that's very interesting.
This history aspect of currencies is actually very, very interesting.
And one thing I'd like to add about quarters is that in the 2000s, so from 2000, I think,
on, the United States started to make state quarters.
So you'll see oftentimes these quarters with a picture of a state, New Hampshire, Maryland,
Illinois, California, and a special symbol of that state.
And so these are special quarters from the last maybe 10 years or so.
Yeah, I remember seeing these because usually on the other side of the quarter, on one side
you had George Washington, on the other side you had the eagle, the emblem of the flag,
Well, not the flag, but the national bird or the republic.
But now you have these states, and it says Delaware, and it has a little maybe, I don't
know, flower or something that's representative of these states.
So that was actually very nice.
It was a collector's type thing as well, right?
People were collecting these.
You can collect all 50.
Some people did that.
And you still see them in use.
So those are the state quarters.
And those generally are newer quarters.
So we're out of time, but if you guys have any questions or doubts, you could find us
Come on in, guys.
My name is Catherine and today, Marco, we're trying to make some plans.
We're trying to go to a restaurant, correct?
We want to go to a restaurant tonight, but before we have to call them to make sure that
there is a space or room available for us.
So we're going to hear a conversation between a person at a restaurant who works there and
a person who would like to go to that restaurant.
Bruno Bistro, how may I help you?
Yes, hello.
I would like to make a reservation, please.
For which day and time, please?
Tonight at seven.
I'm sorry, sir, but we are fully booked tonight until eight.
In that case, eight o'clock is fine.
And how many people will attend tonight?
Four people.
Lastly, may I please know what name I should make the reservation under?
So let's take a look at Language Takeaway.
So first up, Marco, we didn't hear the word restaurant in today's dialogue.
We heard a different noun.
We heard this bistro.
The name of the restaurant is actually Bruno Bistro.
So this restaurant, the type of restaurant this is, it's actually a bistro.
It's a name like Marco or Catherine, but a bistro is actually a special kind of small
And I believe it comes from France, right?
So it's kind of small and intimate, maybe some candles and lots of wine, but it's not
like a big restaurant.
It's very romantic.
Which usually, I found it means that it's more expensive for some reason.
Because it's a bistro, it's automatically more expensive.
I think maybe in America it's more expensive.
Maybe in France it's the cheap option.
Bistro is the kind of place we're at and we'd like to go, so it's probably a popular place.
We need to make a reservation.
So as you see there, we have a verb there, to make.
We want to make a reservation.
So let's take a look at the noun, a reservation.
Reservation.
So this word means to ask the restaurant to hold your seats.
So you say, listen, I would like to come to your restaurant tonight.
I don't want to wait when I come, so I will call in advance.
I'll call early and ask them to save a table for us.
So this is called making a reservation.
So it goes together.
You call to make a reservation or you want to make a reservation.
So the verb is to make.
So I could say, for example, hey Marco, can you please make a reservation for dinner tonight?
I'm afraid there might not be any tables left if we wait.
Now, we can use the verb reserve as well, right?
So reservation is a noun.
To reserve is a verb.
So I can say, hey Marco, can you please reserve a table for dinner tonight?
So we can say to make a reservation or reserve a table.
But you have to say reserve a table.
You can't say, I would like to reserve, please.
No, you have to reserve something.
So if I'm going to a concert, a music concert, I can say, I'd like to reserve two seats for
the concert.
But if I'm going to dinner, obviously we sit at a table.
So I'm going to reserve a table.
Now, moving on to another verb, the waiter or the person in charge there asked us how
many people will attend dinner tonight.
So how many people will attend?
To attend.
This is another verb.
To attend means to be there or to come.
So it's actually a nicer way of saying to come.
Instead of him saying, how many people will come tonight?
He says, how many people will attend?
So that's a question for the person making the reservation.
How many people total?
But it's like you say, very polite.
You could say, hey, Marco, how many people do you think will attend your birthday party
next week?
So I can say, well, maybe 10 people will attend.
10 people will attend.
So attend, quite a simple verb, but just remember that it means to come or to be present at.
So let's take a look at our dialogue again, and then we'll be back in a bit with Fluency
Tonight at 7.
I'm sorry, sir, but we are fully booked tonight until 8.
In that case, 8 o'clock is fine.
Mark.
All right, we've picked out three phrases for you.
All right, so the first phrase we have on Fluency Builder is actually a phrase you don't
want to hear when you're trying to make a reservation.
The person at the restaurant, the bistro, said, I'm sorry, we're fully booked until
8.
So a place that is fully booked or maybe a flight that's fully booked means that it's
completely full.
There are no available seats or available spots or anything.
All the tables have been reserved.
All right, so this means that we have to change either the day or the time.
It's fully booked.
But the nice thing is that after 8 o'clock is not fully booked.
There are free tables after 8.
And I actually went on to say an interesting phrase to start that sentence.
He said, in that case, 8 o'clock is fine.
In that case.
So in that case is a great phrase to use when you're having a conversation with someone
or a negotiation, because it's something that we say when the situation, okay, like reserving
a table is not exactly the way we hoped it would be.
So with today's dialogue, we wanted to book a table at 7 o'clock.
There was no table.
So in that case, in that situation, because it changed from what we thought, we had to
book a table at 8 instead.
So it's usually a response to information that was given to you.
So they say, oh, I'm sorry, there are no tickets available for the zoo today, only for tomorrow.
In that case, why don't we go tomorrow?
So I wanted to go today, but the situation changed or there's a problem.
In that case, let's change our plans.
And lastly, the waiter asked, may I please know what name I should make the reservation
under?
What name I should make the reservation under?
Now to make a reservation, we already learned this phrase.
It means to reserve a table.
Now to make a reservation under a person's name, this is quite different, right?
This means that we're going to save a table, reserve a table, but we have to provide a
name.
So if we say, okay, one table reserved for four, we don't know who.
So this is the name that you will give the waiter when you arrive at the restaurant.
So that is your table basically, and that's your reservation.
So if you go to the restaurant, you say, hello, I have a reservation under the name of Mark.
I have a reservation under the name Mark, or I have a reservation for Mark at eight
o'clock.
Now when they ask the question, they're going to say, what name should we make the reservation
That's because, so just think about it as when they make the reservation, they have
this big book.
They write your name and underneath they write the time.
What name should we make the reservation under?
So we've taken a look at a lot of vocab and some really good phrases.
So making a reservation, now this is fairly easy.
This is basically what you're going to experience if you call any restaurant to make a reservation,
And it's really important to know how to respond because I know in other languages, sometimes
you reserve seats instead of tables.
And so in English, we reserve or we book a table.
Now sometimes you will call a place and you'll say, well, I'd like to make a reservation
and they will say, I'm sorry, we don't accept reservations.
Yes, this is actually a very frustrating situation, especially if a restaurant or bistro is very
Because if they don't accept reservations, we don't make reservations, that means that
you have to go to the restaurant and maybe wait in line for a table.
That's called, I think, first come, first served, right?
First come, first serve.
So that means that the first people to arrive at the restaurant are the first people to
get a table.
So it's smart to arrive early.
So that's what happens.
Now there are certain restaurants where you can't make a reservation or different.
We took a look at a bistro.
There's another one, like for example, very popular in the US, a diner.
A diner.
Now this is not a place you need to make a reservation for.
Normally a diner is a very casual place to eat.
You can go at nine o'clock in the morning for breakfast.
It's not very fancy at all.
And it's open, I think, 24 hours usually.
Many of them are open 24 hours.
And that's why I say it's not a place you need to worry about a reservation because
they're usually popular at certain times, but like seven o'clock for breakfast or, you
know, 12 o'clock for lunch, but you can usually get a table.
So if you guys have any questions or any other doubts, you can find us at EnglishPod.com
You guys are great!
And Marco, today we're talking about a very important part of daily life.
Today we're going to take a look at a lesson about technology and something that has become
so popular and part of our everyday lives that it's necessary for us to acknowledge
it in English.
So we're talking about cellular phones, but not just cellular phones.
Something you can do and that many people often do on their cellular phones.
So before we get into that, let's listen to the dialogue, try to understand what it's
all about and we'll be back in a bit.
Why didn't you text me last night?
I sent you three or four messages.
I didn't get any of them.
I was waiting for you to text me the address of where the party was and I never got your
message.
Why didn't you just call?
I hate sending SMS messages.
Well, because I didn't have any credit on my phone.
I used it all up this month.
I thought you had an unlimited SMS plan.
I do, but if I don't have any credit in my phone, it won't let me call or send messages.
No wonder you didn't get my texts.
So now let's take a look at Language Takeaway.
First up on Language Takeaway, we have the verb that is the focus of today's dialogue,
to text.
To text is a verb in this case, to text.
Text me.
Why didn't you text me?
Now remember that text means other things in other situations.
Here it's a verb.
It's a very new word as a verb from the last maybe 15 years or so with cell phones.
So that's actually what it means is to send a text message via cell phone.
So you send a message.
You actually write the message, right?
It's not a call.
When I call you, I talk to you.
When you text someone, you actually write a message.
It's very short and then you send it and the other person can read it.
So instead of saying, why didn't you send me a text message last night?
We just say, why didn't you text me?
Now, another word that we often hear about texts is the noun messages or message.
So I sent you three or four messages.
So when we're talking about texting someone, what we're doing is sending a message.
A text message.
Because we can send a voice message.
So voice is me talking, hi Marco, it's Catherine.
But a text message is actually words.
I write them out.
So, but then we could actually use the verb form as well.
So we can say to text or we can say to message.
Why didn't you message me last night?
So we use this slang to message someone because text is very common and everyone uses it.
But normally young people say, hey, why didn't you message me?
Or aren't you ever going to message me?
Or stop messaging in class.
So these are verbs to text and to message.
Now, if we see down towards the middle of the dialogue, we see that the person hates
sending SMS messages.
So it's kind of explaining already what's been said because you have SMS messages and
this abbreviation stands for?
Short message service.
Short S, message M, service S. So short message service.
But most people around the world say SMS.
So they say, oh, send me an SMS or send me an SMS message, which again, like we see in
the dialogue, it's kind of contradictory because we're already saying short message service
Yeah, but most people don't know what SMS means.
So they just say, hey, send me an SMS message or send me a text message or I didn't get
your SMS.
Now, lastly, we didn't get the SMS because we didn't have any credit on the phone.
Now, credit is an important word here.
We have credit or we don't have credit.
And it's important to remember that credit stands for money.
So maybe I buy $10 of credit for my cell phone and that means I can send many, many messages.
But when I have zero credit, I can't send any messages.
So this is important because usually in many places you have to have this amount of money
in your phone in order to be able to talk and send messages.
So this money that you have is called credit.
So you can say, I don't have any credit on my phone.
And it's basically a way of having money without having real money.
You actually buy credit from your cell phone provider like AT&T or if you have China Telecom,
that's who you buy credit from.
So let's get into the dialogue again and we'll be back with Fluency Builder.
I don't have any credit in my phone, it won't let me call or send messages.
All right, we've prepared three phrases for you.
Let's start with those now in Fluency Builder.
So we're still talking about credit here.
Now when you have credit, you can use it.
But if you use all of it, we say you use it all up.
We used it up.
To use something up.
So here, what does the up do?
Because we can use something, like I'm using my toothbrush, but to use up is different.
Right, it means that you finished it.
It no longer exists.
So it's completed.
I had credit, I used it up, that means it is gone.
So for example, maybe paint.
You're painting a room and you used up all the white paint.
So you used all the paint, you have no more paint.
It's gone, so it's all used up.
It's a very important phrase to remember, it's used up.
Now going back to SMS and messages, the question came up and said, I thought you had an unlimited
SMS plan.
All right, so an unlimited SMS plan.
We know what SMS means, but first of all, let's talk about a plan.
Because when we talk about cell phones, it's important to remember that some people buy
credit, that's how they get service.
But some people buy plans.
This is very popular, by the way, in America, this is how most phones are.
What is a plan?
So basically, it's just like any other service, like maybe internet.
You pay a monthly fee and you get a certain amount of this service.
So maybe you pay $50 and you get 100 minutes to use on your cell phone, an unlimited amount
of SMS.
All right, so basically, my cell phone provider, AT&T or Telecom, they will say, for this
price, you get this much time, this many messages each month, and you have to keep paying it.
Normally, it's one year or two years that you have to commit.
You can't say, nah, I don't want this anymore.
But the important thing here is that the person bought an unlimited SMS plan.
So this keyword there, unlimited, means it has no limit.
It means you can use it as much as you want.
So unlimited, no limits, that means you can do it as much as you want.
You can have unlimited calls, you get unlimited SMS, you can have unlimited data, for example.
And we end it with saying, well, no wonder you didn't get my text.
Well, because he didn't have credit.
No wonder you didn't get it.
I know wonder is a great and very important phrase, and it's something we say when we
finally understand why something happened.
Right, we realize what happened.
So Marco, gosh, why didn't you respond to my calls?
Well, I didn't have any credit.
No wonder.
That means, oh, now I understand.
It's a great phrase to start off your sentence by explaining or letting the other person
know that you finally understand why this happened or you understand what the situation
was.
All right, so let's take a listen to the dialogue one last time.
So talking about messages and everything, do you send a lot of messages?
Because I know some people who send like 100 messages a day.
Well, that's usually teenagers.
Yeah, I don't send 100 messages a day.
I mostly use messages.
I don't call people very often.
I find that messages are easier and cheaper, actually.
But I can't imagine sending a thousand messages a day or a hundred messages a day.
Your thumbs would get so tired.
Well, I remember, well, this is back in the day when you had the little Nokia phones and
you didn't have the touch screens and all this stuff.
I did have some friends who were very, very agile with sending these messages and some
did send, I don't know, 100, 200 messages a day because it was that new way of communicating
with people.
Yeah, it's very exciting.
And I will also mention, and this is something that my parents complain about, there is something
in America and I'm sure in England as well called text talk or text speak.
And so because messages are short, people have started to change the way they spell
or write words.
So instead of saying F-O-R, this is for you, they write, this is number for you.
And it's so funny because you see these normal words but written in a strange new way.
And people who are older, I think my parents' age, and I do too to some extent, really don't
like it because it's so different.
It's especially very popular with the younger generation because it translates now to all
sorts of messaging.
So before, as you say, it was because of the limitations, the amount of characters you
could send in a message.
But now it's just become something that people have gotten in the habit of doing.
So for example, instead of writing skate, like skateboard, they would write S-K and
then the number eight.
So skate.
Skate.
It's so strange.
And I know it actually happens in other languages as well.
Yeah, a lot.
Italian, they do it a lot.
And Spanish, I'm sure as well.
But we call it text speak because it's very, very short and kind of abbreviated.
But it's a problem from my understanding is because these younger generations, they use
it so much that they really kind of start forgetting the proper grammar and proper spelling.
So even you will find, I saw a report the other day, essays or reports handed in with
these terrible spelling mistakes.
That's awful.
Well, I hope, hope, hope that people are learning grammar and spelling, especially non-native
learners of English.
So if you're doing homework for your English class, don't use these.
But it might be interesting to look them up.
So let us know though, do you text message people?
Do you send these text messages?
Do you have SMS service in your country?
My name is Catherine and today we're talking about something that is, well, not so fun
when it happens.
Today we're going to talk about those situations where people are trying to take advantage
They're lying to us so they can take our money.
Let's take a listen to today's dialogue and when we come back in a moment, we'll be talking
about some of these words and phrases that you're about to hear.
I got an urgent email from Tom.
He says he's in London and got robbed and needs us to wire him some money for his hotel.
That sounds really dodgy to me.
Tom is an honest person.
He wouldn't lie to me.
No, I mean, it seems like someone may have hacked his email account and sent that out.
I mean, think about it.
Why would he email you instead of calling you?
Do you really think someone is trying to scam people into sending money?
There's so many con artists out there.
You never really know.
So let's take a look at some language on Language Takeaway.
In Language Takeaway, Marco, one of the first things we hear is that I got an urgent email
from Tom.
So this is an adjective, something that is urgent.
It means it needs to be looked at immediately.
So you can have an urgent email.
That means it's a very important email or something in a situation can be urgent.
Yeah, like an emergency.
So urgent care.
We talk about at the hospital.
It's something that needs to be looked at by a doctor immediately, urgently.
Urgently.
That would be the adverb.
So we go on to say that the email is urgent because it's from Tom and the email said that
he is in London and he got robbed.
All right, he got robbed.
So to rob is the verb, R-O-B, but here it's important to look at the verb got.
This means that whatever's happening, it happened to him, to the friend by someone else.
So someone robbed him.
That means someone took his money, right?
So the verb would be to get and robbed would be an adjective ending ed, but we also have
the verb to rob and if you rob someone, that means that you are stealing his or her money.
Yeah, if I rob Marco, it means I take Marco's money from him, but if I got robbed by Marco,
it means he took my money.
So if you use the verb to rob by itself, that means that you are doing the action or someone
is stealing from another person, but if you get robbed or a person got robbed, that means
he or her got money taken from him.
Now the friend got robbed, someone took his money and we've been asked to wire him some
Okay, to wire money.
That's right, to wire money.
This basically means to send money.
It's a very old way or form of sending money.
Basically you're sending money electronically.
You don't actually buy an envelope and put some money in it and send it in the mail.
You go to a bank or Western Union and you transfer the money electronically.
So to send an electronic transfer of money, we usually say you wire someone some money.
Yeah, I'll wire it to you.
So the main topic about today's lesson is about people trying to scam other people.
All right, here the verb to scam means to lie or to be dishonest with someone so that
you can take their money or to take advantage of them.
So to scam means to take advantage of someone, to lie to someone, but you also have a scam,
a noun, which is a situation where people are trying to take your money.
So a very famous scam might be people in a big city like Paris saying, Oh, I'm a tourist.
I'm lost.
Can you give me some money to go to the train station?
And really these people, they're not lost.
They just want you to give them money.
This is called a scam.
And what they're doing is they are trying to scam you.
And so we actually have a word for these type of people.
We say they are con artists.
They are conning you.
A con artist.
So we know what an artist is.
An artist is a person who maybe paints pictures or makes something creative.
But a con is someone who breaks the law.
So a con artist is someone who creatively breaks the law.
So these are basically thieves or people who take advantage of other people or steal from
other people in a very creative way.
So there are situations where they may sell something that doesn't even really belong
to them.
So the thing to remember here with a con artist is that there's almost always a story.
You know, you have to, they give you this story and they make you believe them and then
you give them money or you give them some help that they don't deserve and that way
they take it away from you.
So we've taken a look at a lot of language here.
Let's take a break, listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back in a bit.
Let's take a look at four key phrases on Fluency Builder.
So we've got two friends who are talking.
One friend says that they got an urgent email from Tom and the other says, wow, that sounds
really dodgy to me.
Just right.
So if something sounds dodgy or something is dodgy, it means it doesn't really sound
believable or correct or legal.
So maybe I can't trust it.
Something is dodgy if it doesn't sound like something I would want to trust.
And I think you can say it about a situation.
So this robbery, it sounds quite dodgy.
You can also say it about food, right?
So if something looks kind of dodgy, it means it doesn't really look safe.
Maybe I'll be sick if I eat it.
So it's quite dodgy looking.
Or even a person can look dodgy.
So maybe that person is not really someone you want to trust.
A con artist doesn't always look dodgy.
But if a person looks dodgy and they ask you for money, probably shouldn't give it that
many money.
So that's dodgy.
Now, the person answers by saying, no way.
He's not dodgy.
He's not.
Now, this is a really popular thing to say.
And it means basically, that's not possible.
I don't agree with you.
And it's pretty forceful, actually.
You're expressing your opinion.
So if I say, the Chicago White Sox are the best baseball team in the world.
No, you're wrong.
I think the Yankees are the best.
We could go back and forth.
But basically, you're disagreeing.
Now, the situation evolves around the fact that someone may have hacked Tom's email account
and send out that email.
So the phrase here would be to hack an account or to hack a website.
It's important to remember that the verb to hack is pretty recent.
We talk mostly about computers and the internet when we talk about hacking.
And it means to gain access, all right, to go into somebody's account without permission.
It can be illegally or, like you said, without permission.
So if your email account gets hacked, it means someone else accessed it without your permission
or illegally.
So when someone has access to your account, they hack it.
Usually they send out an email with your name.
So your friends think it's you, but really it's someone who is maybe a con artist or
someone who's not trustworthy.
So that's the word to hack or maybe the noun, the person that hacks is called a hacker.
Now moving on to our last phrase.
When we agree with someone forcefully, like we said, no way was to disagree.
When we do agree, we say for sure.
This is basically the opposite.
In this situation, we were thinking, well, do you really think someone is trying to hack
his account?
The answer was for sure.
That means definitely, absolutely.
It's another way of agreeing, strongly agreeing with someone or with what someone said.
So that's all we have for today.
So talking about scams and con artists in China, there is actually a very, very, very
famous scam involving tea.
And this is something that you might experience in Beijing or Shanghai or any big city.
I hope you don't.
But basically, as a tourist, you're traveling around, you go to a major tourist site like
Tiananmen or the People's Square in Shanghai and some other tourists, some Chinese tourists,
they come to you and they say, hello, where are you from?
Are you traveling here?
We're traveling too.
And then after about half an hour, maybe one hour of talking, they say, hey, we were thinking
about going to have some tea.
There's a tea festival.
Would you like to come with us?
And you go and you drink some tea and you chat and you think, wow, I've made some nice
new friends.
These people are very nice.
And then you get the bill.
And it's like 200 US dollars, which is pretty crazy for tea.
It's a scam.
These people are con artists.
They build trust.
They make you trust them.
They make you think, wow, I have nice new friends.
And then they steal your money.
They steal your money.
It's a very popular scam in China.
And basically, if you do come here, just be aware of it.
It's usually young people.
They say they're university students or they say they are from another city.
And like you say, they build trust.
They invite you to have tea.
And you think, well, why not?
You know, to learn more about the culture, to learn more about the country you're visiting.
And they turn out to try to scam you.
And the most popular one is the artists.
I'm a local artist.
I would like to show you my newest work.
And then they take you and the work is very expensive and they make you buy it.
So just be aware.
I think what you said is true, Marco, that you just have to be careful and have to recognize
that not everyone wants to be your friend.
So be careful when you're traveling.
And I'm sure it happens in many other countries.
Maybe you have some stories that you've experienced or maybe some local types of scams that you
may know about in your country.
Try and use those new words, con artist and scam.
We'll be around answering your questions.
Transgotradia.com
And my name is Catherine. And today we're talking about some very interesting stories.
We're going to learn some words for stories or tales. But specifically, what kind of stories,
Marco?
They're popular stories that you hear maybe through emails or maybe in your town there's
some particular story about maybe a ghost or many different things that they're kind
of hard to believe but that happened a long time ago and people still talk about today.
And they're scary.
Yeah, they're kind of scary.
So let's listen to today's dialogue, hear some interesting stories. And when we come
back, we'll be talking more about what these words and phrases mean.
Have you read all these crazy things that are going on around the world?
I was reading about how some people get tricked or drugged in their hotel rooms and have their
organs removed. Then they're sold on the black market.
Don't tell me you actually believe all that. Don't be so gullible. They are just urban
legends. They're just stories people make up to scare you.
Well, I was also reading about how some popular songs have subliminal or even satanic messages
if you play them backwards. Can you believe that?
You really think an artist or songwriter is going to go through the trouble of putting
subliminal or satanic messages in a song? Don't be so naive.
Well maybe you are right. But how about the story about how KFC has rows of headless
chickens which are super grown in order to get bigger chickens faster?
Sounds a bit too far-fetched to be true, don't you think?
All right, we're back. So let's take a look at Language Takeaway.
So here on Language Takeaway today, we have some words that will help us understand the
dialogue. The first word is drugged. So I was reading about how some people get drugged
in their hotel rooms.
That's right. So if you get drugged, it means that someone gave you some drugs in order
to make you sleepy or in order for you to not remember what happened.
All right. So he was drugged means someone gave him a drug, something that made him go
to sleep.
Right. And it's not necessarily always a bad thing because obviously if you go to the hospital,
the doctor may drug you in order to, you know, so you don't feel so much pain or something.
Exactly. If you're in an accident, you're in a lot of pain, the doctor drugs you so
you don't feel that pain.
All right. So he was drugged. This person is drugged. And then what happens?
Well, his organs were removed.
All right. So organ, an organ is a noun. It's a thing. Those are actually the things that
are inside our body.
Right. So your heart, liver, your pancreas, kidneys, etc.
These are all organs. And this is basically the category for the part of the body. It's
anything really inside your body that has a function.
Okay. So this is supposedly this story is that people, you know, usually tourists, they
get tricked or drugged and then they get their organs removed.
Now what kind of a story is this, Marco? Because it's not just a normal story.
Right. All of these stories that we saw in the dialogue are called urban legends.
Okay. Urban has to do with cities, right? Legend is a story that may or may not be true.
It comes from a long time ago.
So an urban legend is actually a story that is probably not true that you hear from other
people like your friends.
That's right. So usually most of these stories fall under this category. You know, they're
urban legends. You don't really know if they're true, but people say it happened to a friend
of theirs from a long time ago or stuff like that.
Exactly. So a friend of a friend of a friend of mine told me that in hotels, sometimes
they take your organs. Well, obviously that's not right.
Right. Right. All right. So after that, we have two great adjectives for describing people
who like to believe stories like this. What are those two adjectives?
Well, we have the adjective to be gullible and to be naive.
All right. So they're a little bit different. To be gullible means to believe everything
that people tell you.
Right. So if you're gullible, you pretty much believe anything you see or you hear.
Yeah. So maybe your friend says, did you know Michael Jordan is coming to the office tomorrow?
Right. And you believe it, then you're very, very gullible.
Very gullible. You believe what people tell you. But naive is similar.
It's similar, but I guess it has a little bit of a different meaning in the sense that
you're not, it's not that you're so gullible, but you wholeheartedly trust people. So you're
naive, you're innocent.
You're innocent. Maybe you don't have a lot of life experience. So you trust people and
you can call a person naive. You say, well, he's very naive about these kinds of things.
I guess that's the main key, right? Or the main point is that you don't really have too
much life experience. So that's why you're naive.
That's right. And just be careful because gullible and naive are things that we say
about people, but they're not nice things. They're not compliments.
Right. So you shouldn't really say it to someone directly like in the dialogue.
Exactly. Maybe as a joke, but not seriously.
Okay. So we have the great adjectives way to describe people. And lastly, we also have
something else that how to describe the situation. Maybe it's too farfetched. It's too difficult
to believe.
So farfetched, this is a great word. It means basically that something is very difficult
to believe. Like you say, for example, the story about Michael Jordan. Michael Jordan
is coming tomorrow. You say, oh, that's pretty farfetched. I don't really think that could
Right. So something that is farfetched is difficult to happen or very, very unlikely
to happen.
Very unlikely.
Okay. So very good. We saw five key words there. Let's take a break and listen to the
Well maybe you are right, but how about the story about how KFC has rows of headless chickens
which are super grown in order to get bigger chickens faster?
Sounds a bit too farfetched to be true, don't you think?
All right, let's take a look now at a couple of phrases on Fluency Builder.
Now in Fluency Builder today we're going to start out with the story about organs, this
urban legend. Now what happens when the organ is taken, the story says that it's sold on
the black market.
That's right. So you probably hear this in the news or a lot of places, the black market
basically. It's not really a physical place, but it's where things are sold illegally.
So guns, organs, stuff like that.
Exactly. So the black market, like you say, is not a place you can go to. It's an idea.
And it's basically anything that's illegal that's being sold. Like guns are often sold
in the black market.
Sometimes stolen cars are sold in the black market. Also organs can be sold in the black
market. And this is a serious problem because obviously all of this is illegal.
That's right. So the black market is where all this happens. Now moving on to the next
urban legend that we actually didn't really talk about too much is how many people believe
that popular songs have subliminal or satanic messages in them.
All right. So let's take a look at the word subliminal first. We all know what a message
is, right? It's something that's told to us. But a subliminal message is something that
is told to us without us knowing.
So it goes into your mind, but you don't even know it. So it's something that a lot of people
believe in because they think that marketing people or big businesses are trying to control
our behavior.
So I could say very quietly, Marco, buy me dinner.
And that's a subliminal message.
Marco says, hey, I was thinking about getting everyone dinner tonight. And then that's basically
a way to control your actions. And so whether or not this is possible, that's another discussion.
That's another discussion.
But so, yeah, that's basically what a lot of people say that some TV commercials or
ads have these subliminal messages that are trying to convince you or persuade you into
maybe consuming that product.
Exactly. But they're a little bit different from satanic messages.
That's right. So that's basically dealing with Satan or the devil.
That's right. So the idea that there are satanic messages means that they're messages about
the devil, about how maybe God does not exist or like, you know, that you should do evil,
not good. So they're very dark and very kind of angry messages.
I think they talk about, for example, I'm not sure which song it is, but like by Ozzy
Osbourne that if you play it backwards, supposedly there's this message that says, you know,
worship the devil and stuff like that. So that's where these urban legends come from.
But obviously it's either coincidence or not true.
Right. That's right. So we've got these messages that are also an urban legend. But the final
one is about KFC. So KFC would be Kentucky Fried Chicken. And what is the legend? The
legend is about their food.
That's right. They say that they don't really have real chickens. Well, they take chickens
and they just super grow them. The chickens are super grown in order for them to get bigger
and faster. And that's basically that they don't even really have heads. They just have
some hoses that go into their bodies and feed them. And in four weeks you have a chicken.
That's disgusting. That's disgusting. The idea is super grown chickens. And so they're
basically they're not real chickens.
Right. That's what the legend says is that they're not. I mean, they really are, but
they're not like naturally grown. You know, usually a chicken takes three months to grow
Yeah. All right. That's disgusting. I don't want to talk about that. But the idea of super
growing is like using chemicals to do something that's not natural.
That's right. That's right. Chemicals or hormones and stuff. So that's they use it, for example,
on plants. You can super grow a plant by adding fertilizer and vitamins and stuff to the soil
that makes it grow faster.
Or maybe you have bigger carrots than normal, bigger potatoes because they're super grown.
That's right. So, all right. That's a lot of great stuff. Let's take a listen to the
dialogue one last time.
Well, maybe you are right. But how about the story about how KFC has rows of headless chickens
All right. So, all these urban legends, they are obviously most of them, if not all of
them, are untrue. But they're very popular. Why do you think that is?
I think people like to believe these stories. They're gossipy. They're scary. You get to
make your friends kind of nervous about stuff. But I think also we don't trust a lot of these
things because we've heard for years and years and years and years about subliminal messages
and marketing strategies or about these kind of hidden messages in songs. So, there's part
of us that wants to believe them. But the other part is that you hear it enough, you
start to believe it.
Because I was reading up on a couple of them and the most recent ones are about how they
make the connection about how Nostradamus predicted the 9-11 incident or how Coca-Cola
is actually the one that invented Santa Claus. And even this KFC one where people just believe
a lot of different things. I even found one, the urban legend about be careful when you
go to the movie theater because there might be a syringe or something on the seat that
if you sit down it infects you with AIDS or something like this. So, there's so many of
them out there that if you think about it, they don't even really make sense.
They don't. And I understand that sometimes there'll be one news story like about a needle
in a candy box. And all of a sudden people say, well, don't eat candy because there's
needles in candy boxes.
And obviously, one time event turns into this massive kind of craze.
Yeah. But it is interesting, especially with this whole topic of subliminal messages. I
do remember that actually there was a marketing campaign that was banned in movie theaters
when the previews before the actual movie came on. Supposedly, they had the sound or
maybe on the screen somebody opening up a Coke can and the smell of Coke actually coming
into the theater. And that was kind of like subliminal marketing making people want to
go get a Coke.
Definitely. Well, we used to pump the exhaust from the popcorn maker when I worked in a
movie theater throughout the lobby. So, everyone smells it and it smells so good. Everyone
wants to buy it.
You want to buy popcorn?
Oh, yeah. We would totally use that.
So, yeah. That is a way of like, I guess it is subliminal because you're not directly
telling them to buy it, but you are just giving them all the...
Adjusting it through audio or visual or oratory cues.
Right. And then you have the opportunity to sell them the most expensive popcorn they'll
ever buy.
Exactly. Twelve dollars for a bag of popcorn.
All right. So, it is a very interesting topic. Let us know if you have any comments or questions
about it. You can find us at EnglishPod.com.
We hope to see you guys there. Bye.
My name is Catherine and today we're talking a little bit about food and about your health.
Today we're going to take a look at our favorite maybe kind of food.
We're taking a look at the fast food, all these yummy but not very healthy types of
Yeah, we are.
So let's listen to our dialogue and when we come back we'll be talking about what some
of these foods are and what some of the phrases you've heard mean.
Let's order up something to eat.
Maybe we can order a soup and a salad from the restaurant down the street.
I was thinking of getting a hamburger, fries and a chocolate sundae.
You eat too much junk food.
That sort of stuff clogs up your arteries and is very high in cholesterol.
Well I never seem to gain weight so I don't mind.
It's not only about getting fat or not, it's about being healthy.
You could really have some health problems later on.
How about pizza or maybe some fried chicken?
Better yet, let's order some hot dogs.
You're a lost cause.
So first up on language takeaway is a very unhealthy food.
It's called a chocolate sundae.
We wanted to order hamburger, french fries and a chocolate sundae.
So chocolate we know that this is the flavor that comes from cocoa.
But what is a sundae?
Well basically a sundae is a kind of ice cream dessert.
It comes in a cup or a bowl and it's usually vanilla ice cream with chocolate sauce and
then oftentimes a cherry on top.
So as you can see the word is pronounced exactly like the day, sundae, but it has a different
spelling in the end.
S-U-N-D-A-E, sundae.
So this is a chocolate sundae.
So when you see this spelling, a sundae with an E, that's the dessert.
If you see it with a Y, that's the day.
So chocolate sundae, actually a very delicious dessert, but remember it's ice cream.
And all of these types of food, hamburger, chocolate sundae, it's called junk food.
Junk food.
Well food you know.
What is an example of junk, Marco?
Well something that's not good or useful anymore.
So maybe you have trash that you need to get rid of, like an old TV.
That's junk.
So my mom would always say, throw away this junk.
It's stuff that you don't need.
So junk is things that you would throw away.
Junk food is the kind of food that's not healthy for you.
It's the food that you shouldn't eat, but it tends to be really delicious.
So for example, the hamburger, french fries, a chocolate sundae, all this would fall under
this category of junk food.
And one of the things about junk food is that it's high in cholesterol.
Now what is cholesterol, Marco?
So you always have to be careful.
Your doctor says that you shouldn't have or you have to be careful about having high cholesterol.
And that's just basically, it's a type of fat that is found in animal products.
So for example, beef has cholesterol and it's dangerous because it could maybe cause health
problems.
So my friend needed to lower his cholesterol and his doctor told him he should eat less
red meat, eat more vegetables and fruits instead.
So cholesterol is a, you'll see it all the time when you're shopping.
You'll see that it's low in cholesterol or no sugar or no calories, stuff like that.
Now, a food that is very, very high in cholesterol is fried chicken, but it's also very delicious.
Fried chicken.
Now as you see, the first word there is fried and that means that it was cooked in hot oil.
And what's important to remember about most American fried chicken is that the chicken
is usually put in a batter, so like a milk, egg, flour sauce, and then it's fried.
So on the outside it's very, very crispy and salty.
So it's covered in like a type of bread, like a crispy bread.
It's usually very greasy, so when you eat it, you have lots of grease on your fingers.
But one of the reasons it tastes so good is because as you say, Marco, it's fried in oil.
So this is all the vocab that we have for language takeaway.
Okay, maybe we can order a soup and a salad from the restaurant down the street.
I was thinking of getting a hamburger, fries, and a chocolate sundae.
Well, I never seem to gain weight, so I don't mind.
All right, now it's time for some phrases on Fluency Builder.
So one of the first phrases is actually something that I'm excited to talk about because it
comes up a lot in directions when we're giving people directions somewhere.
So one of the people in the dialogue said, we can order a soup and salad from the restaurant
down the street.
So this is, you're basically telling the person where the restaurant is.
And when you say something is down the street, it means that it's nearby.
It's nearby.
It's on the same street or it's just a few minutes walk from where you are now.
So you can say, my apartment is just down the street from this park.
So it's very close.
Or you could say, I know him.
He lived down the street from me when we were children.
Okay, so he lived really, really close to you.
Now, when we were talking about junk food and we were talking about how it's not healthy,
we said that junk food clogs up your arteries.
A couple important words here to clog up arteries.
The verb to clog, what does that mean?
Clog with a G. It means it gets in the way or obstructs it.
So for example, if a drain, in my sink, if a drain is clogged, the water does not go
So the water starts to build and build and build.
Actually, it's very dangerous because if it comes up too much, the water will go on the
floor.
But that's a drain, that's a sink.
If you're talking about the heart, you would say that cholesterol clogs up your arteries.
So your arteries are like these tubes where blood passes.
And of course, if they're clogged up, then blood can't pass.
And if it's very serious, people sometimes have to have heart surgery to clear those
arteries to take the blockage, the clogging away from the arteries.
So that is to clog something up or something is clogged up.
Now moving on, when we were giving suggestions, we said, all right, well, how about pizza
or maybe some fried chicken?
Now this is a great phrase, as you say, Marco, for offering a suggestion.
You could say, I think we should eat hamburgers.
Better yet.
This means I actually had a better idea while I was telling you my other idea.
So it can be used in the middle of a sentence like here, right?
It's kind of like an interjection.
Better yet, you know what?
Let's get some pizza.
So it's better than the idea you just had.
So let's go swimming.
Better yet, let's go play basketball.
So towards the end, our friend said, you know what?
What does this phrase mean?
It's an interesting phrase.
This is basically a way of saying I can do nothing to change you.
You have a bad habit or you have this bad quality and anything I do, it's not going
to help.
So something that is a lost cause, it means it's hopeless, helpless.
I cannot do anything to change it.
A lot of great vocab here.
It's not only about getting fat or not.
It's about being healthy.
So talking about junk food, we took a look at cholesterol.
Now apparently not all cholesterol is bad.
There are two kinds of cholesterol, HDLs and LDLs.
One kind is good for you and the other kind is bad for you.
So it's important when you talk to your doctor, you ask your doctor if the bad cholesterol
is high for you.
Because if it's the good cholesterol that's high, you're probably not going to experience
health problems.
But if you have really high bad cholesterol, then that's something that you should think
about when you eat and when you choose the kinds of foods that you eat.
So usually, my doctor always used to tell me to not eat so many eggs because eggs are
high in cholesterol.
Red meat and eggs and salty foods I think.
But generally speaking, I think it's good just to eat a lot of vegetables and to balance
out your diet.
So vegetables don't really even have cholesterol.
They have high cholesterol and I think they also have a lot of vitamins and minerals that
your body needs.
It's very, very interesting because actually all food that is usually very, very delicious
is high in cholesterol or high in calories.
It's bad for you.
It's basically junk food.
So potato chips, hot dogs, pizza, fried chicken, all of these delicious foods, they're all
considered junk food and they're all really bad for you.
So that's a very interesting topic.
Now there are certain local types of junk food that people consider to be junk food.
Like for example, if you go maybe to the Middle East, you'll have the wraps, right?
That could be considered a type of junk food.
Because it's fast, it's greasy.
It is pretty greasy.
All this delicious, like a shawarma wrap.
So maybe you can let us know what local type of junk food you have.
This is mostly American, burgers, fries, hot dogs.
What is it in your country?
What's wrong Catherine?
I'm just a little down today.
You're having a, you're in the mood, you're not in the mood today?
Is that what's going on?
I am not in the mood to record today.
Actually no, I am in the mood.
So we're talking about moods, feelings, emotions.
This is today's podcast and we're going to be learning a lot of the names for different
kinds of feelings.
That's right, so you're going to learn how to describe what mood you're in.
Maybe you're in a good mood, bad mood, etc.
So let's just jump into the dialogue and see what's going on.
You seem a bit anxious.
Yeah, I'm okay.
I've been having a lot of mood swings lately.
I think it has to do with the pills my doctor prescribed that are causing chaos on my hormones.
So you mean you feel ecstatic one minute and then blue the next?
Yeah, it's weird.
For example, just this morning I was feeling detached and lonely, even though there was
really no reason to feel that way.
Well maybe your mood will swing positively and you will feel confident, brave and hopeful.
I hope you're right.
Okay, lots of feelings.
So many feelings in fact that we're going to talk about the names of them in today's
So on Language Takeaway, let's take a look at this adjective.
You are feeling or you seem a little bit anxious.
Anxious.
He is anxious.
I feel anxious.
Now this word means that you're feeling nervous or uneasy about something.
Normally when you feel anxious about something like a test, all you can think about is the
test.
Oh, will I fail?
Did I study enough?
You're worried.
So this is an anxious feeling.
So if you're anxious, you're worried about something or you're nervous about something.
It could be about your job, interview, a test, etc.
All right, so moving on now.
We're feeling anxious, but then we also feel a different type of excitement.
We are ecstatic.
So well, anxious is a bad feeling.
Ecstatic is a really good feeling.
Okay, so I'm happy.
I'm ecstatic.
That's a really, really, really happy feeling.
Okay, so if you're ecstatic, it means you're very, very happy.
So it's not a negative thing.
So when I get a hundred percent on my test, I'm ecstatic.
Now basically the complete opposite of being ecstatic would be to feel or be blue.
It might seem a bit strange because blue is a color, as you know, B-L-U-E.
But when you're feeling blue, it means that you're feeling sad or down or upset.
You're depressed.
So maybe this is why you also have music, the blues, right?
He's got the blues.
That means he's sad about something, usually a woman.
Aha, okay.
So ecstatic, very, very happy.
Feeling blue, very, very sad.
And well, another example of feelings, also a negative one is if you feel detached.
Detached.
So we know the word attach.
That means to put two things together.
Well, detached means to take two things apart.
So what do you feel apart from?
Other people.
So for example, if I'm feeling detached, maybe it means that I don't feel like the people
around me understand me.
I don't want to talk to other people.
I'm just not feeling very social.
So for example, can you feel detached in your relationship?
You can, and that's actually a really bad feeling because you should be happy in a relationship.
But when you're detached, it means that you don't really feel close to your boyfriend
or girlfriend or husband or wife.
And we feel detached and lonely.
So if you feel lonely, that means that you feel?
Similar to detached, lonely means that you don't feel like you can talk to anyone.
You feel alone.
So I'm very lonely right now.
I have no one to talk to, no friends, you know, no one makes me feel good.
So that means that you feel alone.
A lot of adjectives there, many different ways to describe the way that you feel.
So let's take a listen to the dialogue again.
Well, maybe your mood will swing positively and you will feel confident, brave, and hopeful.
So on Fluency Builder today, the first phrase is mood swings.
So this basically means that your mood is changing constantly, all the time.
So mood is the way that you feel and to swing means to go back and forth.
So I'm happy, I'm sad, I'm angry, I'm lazy.
So these are mood swings and it means that you're not normal, you're not flat, you're
going up and down and feeling many different things.
So to be clear, also your mood is the way that you feel at a certain time or a certain
So you're in a good mood today.
Did you get good news?
So that means that you look like you are happy or it seems that your personality is positive
Or you could say, I'm in a bad mood.
Don't talk to me.
So maybe you're angry.
Now to basically explain why we're having these mood swings, we say that, well, maybe
it has to do with the pills the doctor prescribed that are causing chaos on my hormones.
Chaos is a thing.
And chaos means that there's no order.
Everything is crazy.
It's out of control.
And so basically what this person is saying is that the pills that he's taking, it can
feel out of control.
So they are causing chaos.
To cause chaos, to cause nothing in control and on your hormones.
So, but what does hormones have to do with your mood?
Hormones are chemicals that your body actually produces.
Women have different hormones from men, but they affect the way that we feel.
So oftentimes you could say that I'm in a bad mood because of my hormones.
Pregnant women are very famous for having mood swings, happy, sad, angry, because they
have more hormones in their bodies that they're not used to.
And so they cannot control the way that they feel.
So an example is if a man has too much of one hormone, like testosterone is a hormone,
then this person will usually be very aggressive.
And the female counterpart to testosterone is estrogen.
So if you have too much estrogen, maybe you'll be a little bit too sensitive.
Or emotional.
So that's what we talk about chaos and hormones.
Now, when we talked about mood swings, we take it as a noun, right?
You have mood swings.
But then at the end of the dialogue, we say, well, maybe your mood will swing positively.
So now we're talking, it's separate.
It's not a noun.
We're taking swing as a verb.
To swing.
That means, think about a pendulum, you know, a clock, it goes left and then swings right.
So we could talk about a mood like this.
So maybe your bad mood will swing the other way.
Maybe it will become a good mood.
And so to swing here is the verb.
You can maybe try and encourage your mood to swing.
So to be clear, mood swings are a noun.
But then in this last part, we put the verb to swing to kind of explain where mood swings
comes from, right?
So the noun mood swings.
Now you understand that it's kind of like a pendulum and it's swinging back and forth
and you're changing constantly.
For example, just this morning I was feeling detached and lonely.
Even though there was really no reason to feel that way.
So talking about moods, now there are certain, well maybe like conditions where your mood
is negatively affecting your life.
Like for example, a person that suffers from anxiety.
They have anxiety disorders and this means that they're always worried about something.
So they're always anxious.
Always anxious.
So people who are anxious often tap their fingers or their pencils or their foot, talk
So anxiety, it's not fun to feel anxious and you can only imagine.
So a lot of times these people who have anxiety problems, they will see their psychiatrist
and they will try and get some medicine, some pills to help regulate their emotions, to
help them feel in control.
So that I think is the most interesting thing for me is because your mood is actually very
much dependent on what's going on chemically in your body.
So as you said, you could actually balance out maybe if you're feeling too anxious with
drugs, you can actually make you feel less anxious because of the chemicals.
And it's also important to remember that it's not just drugs that you take.
Sometimes people like to exercise and that helps them feel relaxed and calm because when
you exercise actually, your body produces certain chemicals that help you feel happy.
Or when you eat, sometimes when you haven't eaten, you notice that you're very, very cranky.
Oh God, why are you doing this?
Why are you being like this?
And you eat and all of a sudden, oh, your body chemistry starts to change and so you
feel better.
I heard that some people that suffer from anxiety disorders will be also compulsive
eaters because they're nervous.
So you know this, that some people eat when they're nervous.
This is one of the side effects possibly, right?
I've heard this too, that a lot of people who are nervous or who are anxious, they overeat.
That means they eat too much.
Even when they're not hungry.
And this actually has a very large effect on your body because obviously, like I said,
your body chemistry affects your mood.
So if you eat too much, your body maybe reacts negatively and you're even less happy.
It happens to me sometimes in the movie theater, like a really good scene or I'm nervous or
there's an action sequence and I'm just eating that popcorn up and I'm already really, really
thirsty but I just can't stop.
That's funny.
So if you have any questions or any other ways to describe feelings, maybe you could
post them on our boards at EnglishPod.com.
There are so many different feelings and most of them have words or names.
Look those up in your dictionaries and let us know.
Hey, watch this.
My name is Kathryn and today we're talking about a special kind of man.
Today we are, well, everyone starts living with your parents but as adults, some people
still want to continue living with their parents.
So the topic of today's lesson is living with your parents when you're an adult.
Why did your girlfriend break up with you?
She said she was tired of me not manning up and being more independent, which I think
is all a bunch of crap.
Well, you still live with your parents so she does have a point.
A lot of people live with their parents, especially when rent is so expensive and the slump in
the economy.
Yeah, but you're almost 40.
Plus, you make good money so there's really no excuse.
That's just simply because you're a mama's boy.
Whatever, dude.
I have everything I need.
Why would I move out?
Have a great roof over my head, my mom does my laundry and cooks for me.
What else could a guy ask for?
Let's agree to disagree.
The first verb we have here is to break up.
So we heard the guy say, why did your girlfriend break up with you?
So this is a phrasal verb and to break up in a relationship or in a romantic sense means
to end a relationship.
So if you break up with your girlfriend, it means you end the relationship.
So you think about breaking something, it goes into pieces.
Well, in a relationship, it means you both leave each other, you go your separate ways.
And so you can say, he broke up with me or we broke up.
And the reason his girlfriend broke up with him is because she said he was not independent.
So she wanted him to be more independent.
So independent means that you do things on your own.
When you're, you know, you do things alone.
You don't expect other people to help you.
You don't depend on other people.
So you can say, he's very independent.
He loves to travel alone.
So it means that you don't really need other people's help, I guess, right?
So he's not really very independent and well, his friend agrees.
He says, well, you know what?
I think she has a point.
To have a point means to say something that the other person agrees with.
So you could say, he has a point.
I agree with him.
That's a good argument.
So if somebody says something and you agree with that, when you say, yeah, you have a
point, it means you agree with the argument.
You agree with what that person says.
And now lastly, because he lives with his parents, his friend is saying that he should
move out.
You should move out.
So here's another phrasal verb, to move out.
This means that you leave the house and you find a new house.
So when you're with your parents, you want to move out.
That means you don't live with your parents anymore, but you find your own house.
So, well, in general, when you find your own house, when you leave and your current place
of living, that's moving out, right?
So if I'm leaving the city, I move out of my house.
And then when I arrive in a new city, I move in to a new house.
Oh, very good.
So to move out and to move in, they go hand in hand.
So let's listen to the dialogue again and we'll be back with Fluency Builder.
Well, you still live with your parents, so she does have a point.
Plus, you make good money, so there's really no excuse.
It's just simply because you're a mama's boy.
I have a great roof over my head.
My mom does my laundry and cooks for me.
So now four phrases for you on Fluency Builder.
So we've got a very interesting phrase here at the beginning of Fluency Builder today.
The phrase is manning up.
So the girlfriend was tired of the man not manning up.
So to man up.
To man up to something?
It means to be responsible or to be more mature or to be an adult about something.
So maybe this guy, this man, he's kind of immature.
He lives at home.
He's not very responsible or independent.
And his girlfriend wanted him to be more responsible, more independent.
So she wanted him to man up.
So it usually means that you also should accept the consequences for your actions.
So you might push someone to man up, take responsibility for something and do it even
though the consequences might not be fun or good.
Now this remember is very, very much slang.
So you don't say this in an essay or a paper.
This is what you say between friends.
And another slang phrase here that we use to describe this man is a mama's boy.
He says, his friend says he's a mama's boy.
Mama's boy.
So mama is mother.
Mama's boy means that he's very, very close with his mother.
This is not a good thing to say.
It's usually something that's a little bit critical.
So say he's a mama's boy.
So his mother washes his clothes, she cooks his food, she does everything for him.
And he doesn't do anything for himself.
He's like a little baby.
He's like a child and his mama, his mother does everything for him.
So it is a little bit like an insult, I guess.
So it's not really a good thing to call someone a mama's boy unless in this situation, they're
friends and his friend is saying, well, you know what?
It seems like you're a mama's boy.
So our next phrase is when he was justifying and say, why would I move out?
Why would I leave my parents' house?
So what does he mean by a great roof?
So the roof means the top of your house.
You know, obviously our houses, they're not open.
They have a cover and that's called a roof.
But the phrase here, a roof over my head or a roof over one's head means a place to live.
A home.
So if you say, I don't have a roof over my head, that means I don't have a home.
I don't have a house.
So he's saying that he has a great roof over his head.
His mom does everything for him.
So he's like, why would I move out?
And his friend ends the conversation by saying, you know what?
This is a really important phrase to learn, especially if you like to argue a lot.
In this case, one guy said, listen, living at home is good.
It works for me.
And the other said, no, it's not very responsible.
I agree with your girlfriend.
And at the end, they still believe what they thought originally.
So they agree to disagree.
That means they're not going to argue anymore, but they're not going to change their minds.
So I respect your opinion and you respect my opinion and the conversation is over.
So Marco, chocolate ice cream is clearly the best ice cream.
Vanilla ice cream is the best.
Yeah, no, I think chocolate has more flavor.
No, vanilla is tastier.
Okay, let's agree to disagree.
I still think chocolate is the best.
Marco still thinks vanilla is the best, but we're not going to argue anymore.
Have a great roof over my head.
All right, so talking about a mama's boy living at home.
Now, as he mentioned, in the United States, kids usually leave home when they're 18 or
19 when they go to college, right?
But in other places, like in Latin America or even, for example, in many parts of Europe,
people will live at home until they're 24 or 26 because it is expensive to live by yourself.
It is, and so in a lot of these countries, you hear people maybe joking about the men
being mama's boys.
Like Italy, for example, this is often something that people like to joke about.
Obviously, it's not true in most cases, but it is true that a lot of people live with
their families until later because, like you say, it's expensive or maybe in their culture,
in their tradition, you don't leave your home until you get married.
Right, because it could be also for religious reasons.
Exactly, and so I think it differs from culture to culture, but this idea of a mama's boy
is very, very much a part of American culture.
We often talk about this.
We often joke about it, and sometimes you say, oh, you're such a mama's boy because
my brother sometimes, he calls my mom a lot.
I say, oh, you're such a mama's boy, always calling mom.
Now, obviously, this works for guys, but what about girls?
Would you say like daddy's girl?
Yeah, a little bit.
It's usually girls who get everything they want from their dads.
Like, daddy, I want a new car.
Daddy, I want new clothes.
Yeah, so daddy's girl is someone who is very close with their dad and maybe is able
to have him give her lots of stuff that she wants.
So we don't really hear like daddy's boy or mama's girl very often, right?
No, it's the opposite.
It's always the opposite.
Well, it's a very interesting topic, and I'm sure many of you in your different cultures
may also continue living with your parents, or maybe it's not common, or maybe even after
marriage in many parts of Asia, people get married and live at home with their in-laws.
That's right, so we're very curious to hear about your experience in your country.
If you have such a thing as a mama's boy or a daddy's girl, let us know.
My name is Kathryn and today we're going to be helping you find someone to help out around
So we're looking for someone to help us do some things around the house.
So we're going to talk about this more in depth.
But first, let's take a look at one word on vocabulary preview.
So the beginning of today's dialogue has to do with a newspaper ad.
We are writing an ad for the newspaper.
Now what exactly is a newspaper ad, Marco?
So in the newspapers, usually there is a section called the classifieds where people post ads
or advertisements or adverts where maybe they're selling their car or they're looking to hire
So this is what a newspaper ad is.
You're selling something, you're buying something or maybe you want to hire people, etc.
It is basically an advertisement in the newspaper to find help.
So let's listen to our dialogue and when we come back, we'll be talking more about the
words and phrases you've heard.
Can you help me write a newspaper ad?
What are you looking to buy or sell?
Actually, I want to hire someone to help me around the house.
Oh, you want to get a maid?
Well, I think it's better if you call her a cleaning lady or domestic help.
So what do you want her to do?
I want her to come in three times a week for a couple of hours to clean the kitchen, bathroom
and maybe do some cooking.
And how much do you offer per month?
I would pay her hourly.
I don't know what the going rate is though.
I know for sure it's more than minimum wage, but maybe you should just negotiate with the
person that answers the ad.
I'll try to help.
So first of all today, Marco, the advertisement is about wanting to hire someone.
Now, this is an important verb, especially when we're trying to find help.
The verb to hire.
So to hire means to give someone work, to offer a contract to someone.
So my boss hired me three years ago.
That means he gave me a job three years ago.
But this is not just for office jobs.
This is for all kinds of jobs.
So what about cutting your grass or doing your lawn?
So you can hire a gardener, for example, and it's basically the same thing.
It means that you're going to pay someone to work for you.
So let's say you wanted to hire a maid, M-A-I-D, a maid.
But this is a little bit old fashioned, this word.
What does a maid do or what did a maid do?
Well, a maid is basically a woman, a female servant, so to say, a person that basically
serves you.
So she cleans the house.
She maybe puts the covers on the beds, washes the dishes, cooks, does all of these domestic
So she works around the house.
But because there's a bad association, we don't like to think, oh, we have servants.
We don't say maid anymore.
We have two other ways of saying this word.
So we could say that we want to hire a cleaning lady, right?
Or we want to hire domestic help.
Now there's an important difference between these two words.
First of all, cleaning lady is a woman, a lady, and she is someone who only cleans.
She doesn't take care of your children.
She doesn't walk your dogs.
She basically just cleans the house, washes the dishes, cleans the clothes, washes the
floors.
So she's a cleaning lady.
Now domestic help, this is a little bit more general.
So domestic help would be a little bit more in depth of what the person's going to do.
So we'll help with the domestic work, with domestic meaning the house.
So this person will maybe cook for you, clean the house, take care of the kids, do everything
that is associated with the house.
So it's important to see that domestic means something that has to do with the house.
This is help man or woman in the house.
So that's all we have for language takeaway, but we do have another section, Fluency Builder,
in which we're going to look at some great words and phrases.
So first on Fluency Builder, let's take a look at how we're going to pay the person
because obviously we were saying that we want to hire this person.
We're going to pay them.
So how are we going to pay them?
The person said, I would pay the woman her hourly.
So this is the rate.
This is how much she will be paid.
And we don't say she will be paid $10,000 per year.
We say she'll be paid $10 per hour.
So we pay per hour.
This is paying her hourly.
So if you have an hourly wage, that means that you get paid per hour.
In contrast with a salary, that means that you would get a fixed amount every month.
So if the monthly salary is $1,000, for example, you could break that down and say, but every
day you earn 100.
You work 10 days.
But if it's hourly, you say you'll get paid $10 per hour.
So if you work four hours today, you will earn $40.
So now we want to pay the cleaning lady hourly, but we don't know what the going rate is.
Going rate.
Going.
So this is an interesting phrase and it's important to notice that it's not going rate
is an amount of money, but it's not always the same.
It depends on the industry.
So the going rate for a teacher is different from the going rate for a cleaning lady,
which is different from the going rate for a language tutor.
Or like an English tutor.
So first of all, the going rate is how much these people, these cleaning ladies normally
earn.
It's an average.
So you would usually calculate it, say the approximate going rate is between maybe $8
to $10 per hour.
So it's not like an exact amount.
You would say the going rate is more or less a certain amount.
It's not exact.
So you might ask your friends, what do you pay your cleaning lady?
And one friend says, oh, I pay $12 per hour.
And my other friend says, oh, I pay about $8 per hour.
So to me, it sounds like the going rate is about $10 per hour.
So we're not really sure what the going rate is.
So our friend says, well, you know what?
I'm sure it's more than minimum wage.
Now minimum wage is actually something that the government decides on or either the federal
government in America or the state.
And each state will have a number that they say that is the least you can pay a person
per hour.
So it is the law.
If you pay less, it's illegal.
And this is because we expect everyone to be treated fairly.
So it's not an advantage of people.
And so, for example, in America, in my state, Illinois, I think the minimum wage is $7.25
It's pretty high.
And this is because people need to pay for health care and cars and houses and children.
So we say the least you can pay someone is $7.25.
Now this is different.
As you said, it could be different from state to state.
Because I know in some states, if I'm not mistaken, it's like $5.50 or something.
Yeah, some states it's $5.
It depends on the cost of living.
If it's cheap to rent an apartment or to find transportation, then obviously the minimum
wage is going to be lower.
Obviously there's no maximum wage.
There's no number that is the most you can pay someone.
But all states have a minimum wage.
It's the least that you can pay someone per hour.
So for our last phrase, we don't know what the minimum wage is, we're not really sure
what the going rate is.
So we should just negotiate with the person that answers the ad.
Now to negotiate is a great verb.
It is something that all of us do all the time.
So to negotiate means to try and compromise or to reach an agreement.
So maybe I say the most I will pay is $11.
So I say, okay, I'll pay you $9.
And I say, no, I'll take 12.
Yeah, sorry, 12 is too much.
I'll pay you 10.
Okay, 11.
11?
Okay, agreed.
So it's a way of reaching an agreement, like you say, where both sides have their goals
and they try to find a price that is the best for both parties.
So it's basically a verb to negotiate and this is what you do, as you said, in many
circumstances, especially when you're getting a job.
So let's listen to the dialogue one last time and we'll be back in a bit.
I want her to come in three times a week for a couple of hours to clean the kitchen, bathroom,
I don't know what the going rate is, though.
I'll be happy to help.
So talking about minimum wage, is there any exception to why a person would earn less
than minimum wage?
I don't believe so.
Well, if they're not legally employed, right?
So if you're talking about people who we say are under the table, working under the table,
that means that they're not working legally.
They're not paying taxes.
Then maybe those people will be paid less.
What about waiters and waitresses?
I've heard that they earn less than minimum wage, but because they earn tips.
This is true.
So most restaurants say, okay, we will pay you as a waiter $3 an hour, but because you
will earn tips, you will earn more than the minimum wage.
So this is a good exception.
Unfortunately, there's no promise.
If you have no customers, you earn no tips, so you're still earning less than minimum
wage.
But if you have many, many customers and you earn lots of tips and you make $15 an hour
or something much higher than the minimum wage.
And actually being a waiter or a waitress is a very common job that a lot of people
have when they're still in school or over the summer.
And I've heard that it could be quite good because Americans are pretty good tippers.
Americans generally tip between 15 and 20%.
And you know that you have to tip because your waiter does not earn a minimum wage.
And so I think there is this expectation.
So if your bill comes out to like a hundred bucks, then you are most definitely going
to leave at least a $20 tip.
Usually, yeah, 15 to $20, $20 if it's that much money.
That's very, very interesting, especially considering that in many countries, tipping
is not really considered, it's not expected or it's not really something that people do.
And in America, it is something that you have to do.
So I think a lot of times when people come to America, they don't expect to pay this.
There's tax, there's tip.
So when you see a menu, remember that the cost is a lot higher than you see.
Very, very interesting topic.
Let us know if you have any questions, any doubts or comments.
My name is Catherine and today we are cleaning, right Marco?
Today we are cleaning our house.
It's not one of our favorite activities but we have to do it and so we're going to take
a look at a lot of great vocab related to household chores.
Kevin, what is this mess?
It looks like a pigsty in here.
Clean this up.
Okay, dad.
I will do it in a minute.
Let me just finish this level of this game.
No, I said now.
Plus, you are grounded.
You're not allowed to play video games.
I want you to make your bed, do the laundry and then come downstairs and sweep the floors.
That's so unfair.
You have to pull your weight around here, young man.
My house, my rules.
And I already mopped the floors, dusted the furniture and vacuumed the rugs.
That's great but you still have work to do so get to it.
So today on Language Takeaway, let's take a look at all the verbs and all the ways that
we have to clean the house.
So starting with the first one, we have to make the bed, make your bed.
Make your bed.
Okay, so this might sound quite strange because the verb to make is something we say for a
lot of different things like make a deal.
But here, we're making the bed.
That means we're putting the pillows on top of the bed and we're going to make sure the
blanket is even.
So when you get out of bed, if everything is very messy, when you make it, you put everything
in order on your bed.
And well, it's also confusing because our next verb is to do the laundry.
So you make your bed but you do the laundry.
The laundry here means you clean the dirty clothes.
So this is one of the very, I would say, confusing parts of English where it's kind of confusing
when to use the verb make, when to use the verb do.
So usually, you make a mistake as we say or you make a cake but you do your homework.
So in these cases, you just kind of have to memorize that you make the bed but you do
the laundry.
So this is very common actually to do the laundry.
I have to go do the laundry today because it's an event.
You know, you have to gather your clothes and put in the detergent and wash it and dry
So just remember, make the bed, do the laundry but then how do we clean those floors?
So the floor, we have to do two things.
We sweep the floors.
So the verb there is to sweep.
And how do you sweep?
You actually use a broom to sweep.
So the broom is like a straw.
It's like a brush almost that you use on the floor and you collect all of the hair and
the dust and these things and you put it into the garbage bin.
But after you sweep, then you need to use water to clean because obviously, sweeping
is just for dry things.
Mopping is actually how you clean with water and soap.
So now the verb there is to mop the floors and usually, you use water, you use soap and
you use a mop.
So you use a mop to mop.
The verb is to mop.
The noun, the object is a mop like you say.
So I'm going to mop the floors, right?
So please don't come into the kitchen.
And well, now we need to clean the furniture and usually, on the furniture, we have a lot
of dust.
So we need to dust the furniture, to dust.
To dust.
Yeah, this is something we don't use for the floors really because we have this great verb
to sweep.
But with furniture and things like that, we say to dust and this means we're going to
collect the dust off of the piano or the sofa or the table.
And now, the floors we clean, the furniture we clean, but sometimes we have rugs or we
have carpet in our house, usually in the bedrooms or we have a large rug in the living room
and we need to clean that as well, but we don't really mop it and we don't sweep it.
It's best to vacuum it.
So the verb is to vacuum and what is the noun, the thing we use?
A vacuum cleaner.
A vacuum cleaner or just simply a vacuum.
Now this is something that uses air to suck up all of the dirt and garbage.
So it goes and it sucks up all of that bad stuff and so we don't have to dust it.
And obviously, with carpet, we can't really use water.
So carpet is a great tool for cleaning fabric like carpets and rugs.
So that's all the ways that we can basically, the verbs that we use to clean around the
Now, plus you are grounded.
But I already mopped the floors, dusted the furniture and vacuumed the rugs.
That's great, but you still have work to do, so get to it.
All right, so now let's take a look at some phrases, three of them on Fluency Builder.
All right, now the first word here is pigsty.
The dad says, Kevin, it looks like a pigsty in here.
Right, so a pigsty.
It looks like a pigsty.
Now, a pigsty is where pigs live, right?
So, is it really a pigsty?
It's not really a pigsty.
There are no pigs living there, but to say that a room is like a pigsty means that it's
very, very, very dirty.
It looks almost like the mud and the dirty place where pigs live.
So, he's saying, you're living in a dirty room.
You need to clean this.
So, a room or a house will look like a pigsty.
Now, the dad is actually making him do a lot of work because he says the kid is grounded.
Now, a parent will ground a child, it's a verb, when the child does something bad.
So, maybe the child gets very, very bad grades at school and the parent says, ugh, you're
grounded for one week.
That means you can't go out, you can't play video games.
There are different rules in every family, but to say you're grounded means you're being
punished for something.
So, the verb is to ground and you can also be grounded.
And if you're grounded, you can say, I'm sorry, I can't go out today, I'm grounded.
So, to be grounded is not a fun situation, but obviously the father is saying, listen,
you're grounded.
You have time to do all of this work.
And well, this is something that my dad used to say to me, well, you have to pull your
weight around here.
So, you have to pull your weight around here.
To pull your weight.
Well, you think about it, if you're not carrying yourself, someone else is carrying you, it
means that they're doing more work than they should be.
So, you're basically being asked to do your part, to be responsible for yourself so that
other people like your mom and dad don't have to be responsible for you.
So, you have to help out and collaborate.
So, say there's three people, mom, dad, and a son.
If mom does all the cleaning, all the cooking, all the washing, then the other two, they're
not pulling their weight.
So, she says, pull your weight, do some cleaning, do some washing.
So, if your mom cooks and then you wash the dishes, then you are pulling your weight.
You're helping.
You're helping out.
A lot of great stuff.
Let's take a listen to the dialogue one last time.
I want you to make your bed, do the laundry, and then come downstairs and sweep the floors.
But I already mopped the floors, dusted the furniture, and vacuumed the rugs.
So, doing household chores, not a fun thing.
But also, being grounded.
Why do we consider chores to be kind of like a punishment?
Well, there's punishment where you sit alone in your room and you think about your actions,
and then there's punishment that's more proactive.
Mom and dad say, okay, well, he's grounded.
Let's have him work.
Let's make him do something.
Let's make him do something so that we're benefiting from his punishment.
I think it's also good when children are grounded because it makes them realize that they need
to help out around the house.
This work, it doesn't get done magically.
There's actually someone doing it.
And it's not like, well, in many cases in many countries, people will have, like we
saw in our previous lesson, a domestic maid, a cleaning lady, that will usually do everything
so maybe the kid will become very comfortable and not really do anything.
Or very lazy.
Very lazy.
Even worse, yeah.
So, I definitely remember in my house we had chores because when it's not punishment,
when it's your parents' expectation normally, that's called a chore.
And they say, okay, Catherine, your chores this week, you need to take the garbage outside,
you need to wash the dishes, and you need to make your bed every day.
And then maybe my brother had to help cook and clean the floor, mop the floors and sweep.
So we have different chores.
And I guess this is more common especially if both parents work and everyone is collaborating
or pulling their weight in the house.
And if you don't have a cleaning lady, for example.
Very interesting topic.
Well, that's all the time we have for today.
